<!--yml
category: 未分类
date: 2024-05-27 13:16:41
-->

# Bronze Age Stone Anchors as Material Metaphors: Applying Conceptual Blending Theory to Investigate Their Symbolic Value | Journal of Archaeological Method and Theory

> 来源：[https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z)

It is evident that an anchor’s primary function is at sea, to keep the ship from drifting. The hundreds discovered on the seabed are testimony to the intense maritime traffic along the coasts of the Eastern Mediterranean in the second millennium BCE. While there are certainly more anchors in the sea than on land, this second group is no less interesting. In particular, those anchors found in sacred contexts present distinctive features that make them the ideal subject within a CBT framework. In fact, such votive stone anchors are some of the most significant artefacts that both materially and metaphorically express the connection between the maritime community and the sea. The term *votive* is intended here in opposition to secular or mundane, to indicate objects that were deposited in special places within a framework of religious beliefs, possibly but not necessarily in fulfilment of a vow. Therefore, the focus of this study are the votive stone anchors that were discovered in temples and sanctuaries. The non-votive anchors and the ones found on the seabed will not be included in this paper as they would deserve a separate discussion.^([Footnote 1](#Fn1)) Instead, they will only be addressed when necessary to clarify elements about the votive stone anchors. Strong similarities can be detected between anchors embedded in the architecture of sanctuaries and those in tombs. However, the evidence for the use of stone anchors in tombs is limited to about ten anchors, five of which derive from problematic contexts or are now lost (Brody, [1998](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR3 "Brody, A. J. (1998). “Each man cried out to his God”: The specialized religion of Canaanite and Phoenician seafarers. Scholars Press."), pp. 89–92), which makes the votive nature of these objects very difficult to confirm. For these reasons, I prefer to exclude them from the present discussion. Even in sanctuaries, especially in those with centuries of continuous use (*e.g.* at Kition-*Kathari*), we encounter cases where the votive function of an anchor is difficult to prove, and indeed, it may well be that some were used as common building material. Nevertheless, there is abundant evidence that a majority of those found in temples have clear symbolic implications.

Concerning the characteristics of said votive stone anchors, like their secular counterparts, they are roughly triangular or trapezoidal stones, often rather large, equipped with one or more passing holes, which, theoretically, could be used for the rope and the wooden stocks. Quite intuitively, the first defining element distinguishing a votive anchor from a secular one is its context of primary deposition. Votive anchors are found in a variety of locations within sacred precincts and temples, where they can be incorporated in the foundation walls, as well as placed free standing in courtyards and other open spaces. Indeed, the placing of anchors in building deposits well resonates with the long tradition of placing foundation/building deposits in sanctuaries as a mean to assure divine protection.^([Footnote 2](#Fn2))

Connected to the context of deposition is another key feature of votive anchors: as far as it could be observed, all the votive anchors in the temples were deposited new. It was initially supposed that some of these anchors, particularly those used in the stone foundations of the walls and as the base for pillars and columns, could have been deposited after the successful journey of a ship. However, as Frost pointed out, this does not appear to have been the case as none of the anchors discussed here shows signs of ever being used at sea (Frost, [1985](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR19 "Frost, H. (1985). The Kition anchors. Appendix 1\. In V. Karageorghis & M. Demas, Excavations at Kition V: Areas I and II. 1: The pre-Phoenician levels (pp. 281–321). Department of Antiquities, Cyprus."), p. 282; [1991](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR20 "Frost, H. (1991). Anchors sacred and profane: Ugrit-Ras Shamra 1986\. The stone anchors revised and compared. In M. Yon (Ed.), Arts et industries de la pierre (Vol. 6, pp. 355–410).")).

Related to the previous points, a last aspect to consider is that votive anchors need not have been functional in an actual sea voyage. While the majority of anchors found in temples could have been used on board a ship, this is not always the case. As will become evident in the examples below, the impossibility of using a votive anchor on board the ship does not reduce its functionality within its sacred context. This implies that while morphologically very similar, votive anchors and secular ones are in fact different classes of objects with distinct—although related—properties. It is precisely in the conceptual integration, or blending, between the two domains of sacred and profane that the emergent properties of the votive anchors come into existence.

### Byblos

The oldest evidence for the use of votive anchors is attested in various temples at Byblos, where the tradition dates as far back as the early third millennium BCE. In the Sacred Enclosure and in the Temple of Obelisks, thrteen stone anchors were found within the sacred precinct. Among these were three smaller ones that did not exceed 30 cm in height. Given their relatively light weight, they were interpreted as fishing tackle shaped to resemble the large triangular anchors (Frost, [1969](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR18 "Frost, H. (1969). Stone anchors from Byblos. Mélanges de l’Université Saint-Josef, XLV(26), 425–442."), p. 429). In the Field of Offerings, the excavators discovered four pierced stone anchors, along with other maritime votives distributed in various deposits. In the Tower Temple, the earliest phases of which can be dated to the EB II (c. 3000–2800 BCE), the lowest course of the flight of steps leading to the single entrance to the building is constituted of six anchor-shaped stone blocks (Dunand & Lauffray, [2008](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR9 "Dunand, M., & Lauffray, J. (2008). Fouilles de Byblos. Tome 6\. L’Urbanisme et l’Architecture. P. Geuthner."), pp. 393–394; Frost, [1969](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR18 "Frost, H. (1969). Stone anchors from Byblos. Mélanges de l’Université Saint-Josef, XLV(26), 425–442."), pp. 249–430). The upper end of each block was rounded and presented a wide, regular passing hole as one would expect from typical Middle Bronze Age (MBA, c. 2000–1600 BCE) single-hole anchors. These were only finished on the upper side and showed no trace of use (Frost, [1969](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR18 "Frost, H. (1969). Stone anchors from Byblos. Mélanges de l’Université Saint-Josef, XLV(26), 425–442."), [1970](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR16 "Frost, H. (1970). Bronze-Age stone anchors from the Eastern Mediterranean. The Mariner’s Mirror, 56(4), 377–394\.                  https://doi.org/10.1080/00253359.1970.10658560                                ")). Additionally, as McCaslin ([1980](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR27 "McCaslin, D. E. (1980). Stone anchors in antiquity: coastal settlements and maritime trade-routes in the Eastern Mediterranean Ca. 1600–1050 B.c. P. Åströms."), p. 12) noted, being made of chalk, they could not have been used at sea (Lawrence *et al.*, [2013](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR26 "Lawrence, J. A., Mortimore, R. N., Stone, K. J., & Busby, J. P. (2013). Sea saltwater weakening of chalk and the impact on cliff instability. Geomorphology, 191, 14–22\.                  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geomorph.2013.02.022                                "))—a fact that the ancient seafarers were certainly aware of. Interestingly, the holed, upper portion of the blocks would have been hidden under the next step in the sequence, making it impossible to recognize these stones as anchor-shaped once they had been deposited.

### Ugarit

In use between the end of the MBA until the destruction of the city (c. late 17th to early twelfth century BCE), the Bronze Age Temple of Baal at Ugarit is often cited as the prototypical seafarers’ temple. At Ugarit, the storm god Baal had distinct maritme attributes in his capacity of controlling the weather and as vanquisher of the sea (Brody, [1998](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR3 "Brody, A. J. (1998). “Each man cried out to his God”: The specialized religion of Canaanite and Phoenician seafarers. Scholars Press."), pp. 15–17; [2008](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR4 "Brody, A. J. (2008). The specialized religions of Ancient Mediterranean seafarers. Religion Compass, 2(4), 444–454\.                  https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-8171.2008.00079.x                                "), p. 445; Yamasaki, [2023](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR48 "Yamasaki, M. (2023). Conceptualizing Bronze Age seascapes. Concepts of the sea and marine fauna in the Eastern Mediterranean in the second millennium BCE. Brepols."), pp. 78–80). Even the location of his temple on top of the acropolis would have probably served as a landmark for ships approaching the port at Minet el Beidha (Cornelius & Niehr, [2004](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR7 "Cornelius, I., & Niehr, H. (2004). Götter und Kulte in Ugarit: Kultur und Religion einer nordsyrischen Königsstadt in der Spätbronzezeit. Zabern."), p. 65; Frost, [1991](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR20 "Frost, H. (1991). Anchors sacred and profane: Ugrit-Ras Shamra 1986\. The stone anchors revised and compared. In M. Yon (Ed.), Arts et industries de la pierre (Vol. 6, pp. 355–410)."), p. 355; Yon, [1990](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR49 "Yon, M. (1990). Ougarit et ses Dieux. In P. Matthiae, M. N. van van Loon, & H. Weiss (Eds.), Resurrecting the past: A joint tribute to Adnan Bounni (Vol. 67, pp. 325–344). Peeters.")). Alone among the two contemporary temples on the acropolis, only the Temple of Baal presented a concentration of maritime votives. Relevant to our discussion, several stone anchors of weights varying from a few kilograms to half a ton were built into the cella and were also used in the construction of the walls. Two more were found in the courtyard and must have been free standing. Once again, these anchors had never been used and were deposited new (Frost, [1991](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR20 "Frost, H. (1991). Anchors sacred and profane: Ugrit-Ras Shamra 1986\. The stone anchors revised and compared. In M. Yon (Ed.), Arts et industries de la pierre (Vol. 6, pp. 355–410)."), 362). Eight small weights were found in the area of the Acropolis, near the Temple of Baal and on the slopes directly below.^([Footnote 3](#Fn3)) Of these, five resemble the large anchors, and in one case, the subsidiary hole for the wooden stock-arm is unfinished (Frost, [1991](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR20 "Frost, H. (1991). Anchors sacred and profane: Ugrit-Ras Shamra 1986\. The stone anchors revised and compared. In M. Yon (Ed.), Arts et industries de la pierre (Vol. 6, pp. 355–410)."), Pl. VIII.26).

### Kition-Kathari

We find the closest resemblance in shape, size, and use to the Ugaritic anchors at the Cypriot sanctuary of Kition-*Kathari*, which was founded in the late 12th/early eleventh century BCE. Similar to Ugarit and Byblos, Bronze Age Kition’s economy largely relied on maritime trade, and this dependance was also manifested in devotional practices. Among the most interesting material evidence of the tie between Kition and the sea, we have the 147 stone anchors in the sanctuary complex at Kition-*Kathari* from Temples 1, 2, 4 and 5—this is the most numerous group of anchors recovered from a land site (Wachsmann, [1998](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR44 "Wachsmann, S. (1998). Seagoing ships & seamanship in the Bronze Age Levant (1st ed). Texas A&M University Press; Chatham Pub."), p. 273). Of these, a large part can be assigned to the category of votives. The stone anchors from Kition are not only numerous, but they are among the largest on record, reaching up to 1350 kg weight and 1.6 m height, roughly spanning from the Late Bronze Age to the Phoenician period. They are located in a variety of contexts within the sanctuary and can be either free standing or embedded in the temple architecture such as walls, thresholds, and altars. Similarly, they may be alone, or more frequently grouped in pairs, triplets, and so on up to alignments of six anchors. Unlike at Byblos and Ugarit, where anchors were not initially recognized by the excavators, the anchors at Kition were noted from the start of the excavation, and their position, size, and shape were recorded together with all of their contextual information. Since they are discussed in great detail in Frost’s appendix to the Kition excavation report (Karageorghis & Demas, [1985](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR24 "Karageorghis, V., & Demas, M. (1985). Excavations at Kition V: Areas I and II. 1: The pre-Phoenician levels. Text. Department of Antiquities, Cyprus.")), I will limit myself to highlight here some of the most notable examples.

The freestanding anchors are those to which a ritual/symbolic function may be more easily attributed. Especially clear is the case with anchors 947 (Room 12, Northern Workshops) and the fragmentary 4199 (Temple 5). Both were found upright and freestanding, with obvious signs of exposure to fire, in close association with burnt animal bones and bucrania, in what appears to be an offering installation.

Several anchors were included into structures, of which at least 13 were used in the thresholds between various rooms in Temple 2 and in the Northern Workshops—it is perhaps significant that both thresholds and anchors can be interpreted in relation to liminality. In one case, two anchors (2610, 2611, Room 16, northern workshops) were found stacked on top of each other, with a third anchor (2609) perpendicular to the other two completing the configuration. It is possible that the rope hole of the top anchor could be used in libations to be held upon entering/leaving this particular room. There are a few instances of thresholds featuring pairs of anchors identical in shape and size that were made of a different type of stone—such as the case with 2612 and 2612A (Temple 2) or 946 and 946A (northern workshops). This strongly implies that the pairs were made at the same place, likely in one of the temple workshops, from material that had been brought from different sources. To support the suggestion of an *in situ* production, we also have incomplete and newly carved, unused anchors out of stones of foreign provenance (Forst, [1985](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR19 "Frost, H. (1985). The Kition anchors. Appendix 1\. In V. Karageorghis & M. Demas, Excavations at Kition V: Areas I and II. 1: The pre-Phoenician levels (pp. 281–321). Department of Antiquities, Cyprus."), pp. 290–291). These too were incorporated ‘fresh’ into the top layer of the stone foundations of the temple.

Alignments of up to 6 anchors in the top course of the wall foundations can be observed in the northern workshops, in Temple 1, and are especially concentrated in Temple 4\. As mentioned above, anchors may also be used as column bases (2605–2607, room 16). It cannot be excluded that these last examples were originally deposited as individual votives, and were incorporated in the temple architecture at a later stage. It is still debated whether the number of anchors and their relation to each-other could be meaningful.

Other configurations include the anchors used as altar base in Temple 5 (4977, 4978B/C), which show traces of fire exposure and were probably stand-alone offering installations before being incorporated in the altar. In other cases, there are anchors laid into the floor or in shallow pits, at times individually, other times in groups. In Room 15, four anchors are placed next to each-other into the floor with their rope-holes neatly aligned (944, 944A, 2603, and 2604). Finally, from Temple 1, there are also 6 smaller anchors, variously interpreted as miniature anchors, fishing weights, or diving weights that have an individual mass up to 10 kg.

Interestingly, as was the case at Ugarit and Byblos, none of the votive anchors from Kition shows clear signs of being ever used at sea (Frost, [1985](/article/10.1007/s10816-024-09642-z#ref-CR19 "Frost, H. (1985). The Kition anchors. Appendix 1\. In V. Karageorghis & M. Demas, Excavations at Kition V: Areas I and II. 1: The pre-Phoenician levels (pp. 281–321). Department of Antiquities, Cyprus."), p. 290). This applies as much to the free standing votives as to those used as construction materials. We also have examples of unfinished anchors. Some were only finished on one side, or had only partially carved out rope holes, indicating, as already suggested by Frost, replicas rather than actual anchors. The presence of these unfinished specimens and of new anchors made of foreign stones further implies that at least some of the anchors were produced directly in the temple workshops.