<!--yml
category: 未分类
date: 2024-05-27 13:36:08
-->

# PleIAs/Post-OCR-Correction · Datasets at Hugging Face

> 来源：[https://huggingface.co/datasets/PleIAs/Post-OCR-Correction](https://huggingface.co/datasets/PleIAs/Post-OCR-Correction)

sn99021999/1890/06/24/ed-1/seq-6/ocr.txt

THHJ C M A 14 A1 HAM p 0 _ _ THE OMAHA DAILY BEE , TUEBPAY , JUNE 24 , 1890 , _ _ NEWS ABOUT THE BLUFFS Comparatively Little Damage Done b , Sunday Night's Storm , I , SOME EXCEEDINGLY NARROW ESCAPES An OdiirolloxvH * . Memorial CoiniiionccniKiit I'ro rniiunc nt Ht. AuniliMtiy An Un- fondcd Htiinof NotcH. The rcsnlU of Sunday night's storm wcr apparent on every hand yesterday morning although the damage done was not hcavj Trees In nil parts ot the city were broken twisted .nnd shattered. The nnpavcd street In the upi > cr portion of the city were quit badly washed nnd gullied , and the dirt fron them was deposited on the grnnlta nnd blocl paving hi tun central part of the city. Th washed out paving on North Second am Harrison ntrccts and I'ark avcnno was foum scattered along Washington nvcnuo am along the bank of Indian creek In the lou-c part of the city. Comparatively llttlo of tin paving was washed away , but the street were considerably dnmugcd by the water un dcrmlnlng that which remained , making 1 ilunguroua to drlvo over It. It will bo fount : necessary to relay a .great deal of II on this account. The washed out places wcr repaired yesterday morning , new block bclni dropped i and covered with sand. Thl method of repairing caused n general howl The property owners claim that the paving t now In such condition thntunothor heavy rail would carry out the paving on the wholi street. They Buy that In many places the block : were raised up by the water hut were no carried out , and that gravel lodged undo : many of the blocks when they fell hack , whlgl leaves an Inviting passage way for the ncxi heavy niln. The street supervisor had a largo force o men at work yesterday cleaning away tin mud and putting thoHtrccts and sidewalks .Ii passable condition. The dumugo from Hoodci collars was very slight. The llro and police alarm circuits wen broken , but were all repaired by yesterday noon. A largo limb was torn from n cottonwooil tree on South Ninth street between Sccont und Third avenues , which broke the wire : nnd spllntcre'd ono of the cross arms. It was n noticeable fact that the cottonwoods snlTcr cd heavily , and caused nearly all the damage that was done to the wires. A llreman expressed pressed a wish that the council would pass at ordinance condemning all cottonwood tree ; along public streets , for this reason. The lightning struck the north Main strec marble works , stunning the foreman of the works nnd knocking him down. Ho wns no' severely injured , and wits feeling nearly as well as usual yesterday. The building wns not damaged with the exception of the chimney. Waterman's carriage factory was uninjured with the exception of u prostratct lightning rod , Miss Lillie Gilson , residing with hcrinothci ntf > : W Lincoln avenue , was scvcrclv shockci by the lightning while returning home fron the Methodist church , nnd was precipitated Into the gutter which win fullof water. She would undoubtedly have drowned had nol help arrived. She soon recovered , and was nblo to be about yesterday. Choice residence property centrally located forsnlo by K. H. Sheafo & Co. S. B Wadsworth & Co. , 20T Pearl street , loanmoncy for Lombard Investment company. For ono week , waterworks , $12.00\. Ncv > York plumbing company. It A\'an a Narrow Kxcnpc. The family of Robert G. Kirkwood , jr. , in Crescent township , had a narrow escape from death during the storm. A largo cot tonwood tree standing near to the house fell with a crush upon the building , demolishing it. It wub a ono and a half story frame house , In the house nt the time were Mr. and Mrs , Kirkwood and six children. The upper flooi fell In such a peculiar manner as to form an arch , preventing the great tree from crush ing through to the lower door. The Tamil } were thus caught in the wreck , but not in jured. St. I'YnnclH Academy. The nineteenth annual commencement ol St. Francis academy takes place In the com mencement hull Thursday evening. The art exhibition will bo open all of Thursday , also after the exercises uro over. These an nual showings of paintings , needlework , etc. , uro growing moro and more in merit and in terest. Every admirer of the fine arts will ilndurcul treat at the academy and the dis play should not bo forgotten. The musical and literary entertainment in the evening will doubtless draw the usual crowd. The following programme will bo rendered : Kntrnnco .March I 'as dut'hnrgo . Mattel Pianos Missus li. Herman , SI. I.ovt' , l-\ Mnidoak. I ) . Young , C. Soar , M. Martin. Organ Miss M. Mnnroe. Choriih "Ili-yond the Shadows , " . White Aceompaulhts-MlsM'S M , llcnlclc , N.Mooro , M. Love. Organ Mls-s K. Duunc. Oicctlng . .Ml.ss M. Ilenkel. lliiluos1 Trio . StrrabliOK MNhes L. lllrklnhlnc , .1\. Murphy. II. Luc , V. LaiiKc , II. C'arrlgir , M. U'Jfelll , 11\. lload. Itccltatlon . Thu Monk's Magnificat Miss Anna Drake. IlTrnvntorotrlo ( ) . Verdi Sllsses / . 1 , lingo , 1' . Darranu'li. O. Wlok- hiun , P. Holers A. Wlukham , I' , Fllzgcrnl , A. tilmnk , K. I'reo , M. I'arrull. Enny ( Class Motto ) . . . .lo Nohlo Dt-uila Miss Mnnd Veiling. Caviillur's Parowtdl March . KIttcr Missus \V. Smith. M. Morris , 1) . Cirass , I , . 1 1 ay dun , Oririkii Mist A. Shank. llrcttntlon . Tim Whistling Ituglmcnt .Miss Mabel l.ovo. Dunciiof the riiiomcs . niiiddlnx .MKsos M. Yut cr. L. Lhroll. J. I'orrlso , (1\. ( Kvcrutt. II. Ituw , M. lliitton. Opnruttn . Kuty-dlds Koyill linvottu . Huh MKsos It. Miiri-ny , K. Miihonoy , A , Kuslers , A. Di'tiUu. Essay . Curious to Touch the Klrmatacnt Miss Mary Hughes. I'nlkn llrllllantc . Koulllng Jllss N. Lacy , M. Hughes. 1) ) . Young , J. 1'or- rlgo , 11 , Tow to , U. /.nil1- } lU'cltntlon . The Convict Miss 1C , Duam1. The Tempest . . . Vocul Class Aocompiinlst' Miss J. Keating , Faust do ( iounod , ( Two 1'liuiosl . Misses K. Unune , M. llenkle , Essay-tA Vluw Through a Kent In the Ytillof Futurity . Mlbs M. Mil nro. TnnhuiiMir ( lnol ) . 'Wagner t Mlssos M. Mitnroc , J. Keiitlnn. Itccltatlon . Sulcctcd Miss M. llenkle. i Overture NUlit In ( iramida . Kiout/er Missus N , Mooro. M. Love , J. Keating , V. j Mui-dooh , 1 llorcarolo . Golbcl 9 Misses A , Mnrrav , M. Monroe. ' Accompanist Mlsi N. Mnort1. i'iaosoio- , | g SJISiJIS ; ; ; ; ; ; " ; ; ; ; ; ; ; " 1.1.1" 1 ! ; MIssM.llunklo. ! Btarsof the Nlffht KhliiuO'ur Us . . .rampana f Misses M. Murray , A. Murray , M , Monro. I Accompanist MUs 1C. lniino. ) . Conferring HOIIOI-H , Kte. j valedictory . Thus Knils Uur First Lesson 1 MU.s 1C. Diuine. J. O. Tlpton , real cstntekr ' . ' 7 llroadway , j J , U. Hlx by , Rtoam nuating , sanitary engl- i tic-er , WII Llfo building , Omaha ; 204 Merrlain i block , Council Uluffs. t A good hose reel five with every 100 feet of i Vase purchased ut BUby's , Dopurtcd Oddfollown , The Oddfellows of this city joined Sunday Dfternooi ) In paying mote tribute to their de- leascd brothers , the occasion being the annual conformance to thb pro vision made by the grand lodge. Dr. James MoXuuxhton pro- ildod , C. II. Warren occupied the chair of Iho vlco grand. Miss Klttio Whlto served ns icerotury , L. O , Huff as chaplain , Mr. J. J. Watt as musical director und Miss Uurbara Anderson ut the piano. After the ritualistic services Hon. D. C. Bloomer spoke feelingly In memory of the de- t eased members of Council 11 UUTs ledge No. 4' ) , nmong tlioso being Jniuoa D. Test , Qcorgo Doughty and F. A. Uurko. Mr. Illoomor i DUO of the oldest mitl most hoiiQivd of the members of the order aiid his loug active nssoclntlon with the brethren i-cndercd li most fitting that he idiould lliui speak o their merit * . HU address was full of his tbrlcul Intorest. Mr , O. Li. Jacobs Airoko In eulogy of the dc parted members of Hnwkcyo ledge No. 181 U was n lender tribute. Mr. John Schlcketnnz nuimndcil on behal of Humboldt ledge No. 174\. Mrs. J. M Matthews gnvo an address In behalf o Council Bluffs Hobckah degree lodge No. . ' } Only ten of Its members had died In twenty two years. The exercises closed with the rltimllstli service provided for such octillions and i general leeturo by Ij. C. Huff. Music Interspersed Iho programme. Dr. II. S. West , iwtvchun crown and brldgi work , No. 13 I'carl. An Unrounded Humor. A great deal of excitement was occosiouci ' on the streets yesterday morning by th'o re port that a double drowning had occurred nl Lake Mamuva Sunday night during tin storm. A trip to the lake failed to verify tin report. As nearly as could bo ascertained the report was started through the finding o an empty boat which washed ashore. 1 seems that n man nnd u woman pulled awnj from the north shore In that boat shortly before fore the storm burst and have not been sect since. It Is believed that they had not gone fai nnd that they returned to the shore , landiiu ns best they could nnd turning the bon' ' adrift. In their haste to reach a spot sheltcrci from the driving rain. It was regarded as ] Kssllilo that they might have reached UK south shore und remained there all night , bill no 0110 had appeared from * that , side up U yesterday afternoon , nnd It was not knowr what had occurred thero. This theory 1 ; regarded as Improbable , as they would * nol have drifted back across the lake against tlu heavy wind. The names of the parties an unknown , but Is not believed that they were drowned. The Manhattan sporting hcndq'rs , 418 B- Minstrels June i ! " Black Friday fun Lo cal hits Ha , 1ml Hughes hall. Fritz GOON Krcc. The trial of the Sunday shaving cases was had before Justice Scliurz yesterday after noon , and the defendant secured a Jury trial. The twelve men summoned as jurors were BertKvans , W. H , Dooley , Oscar Kccllno. J. A. Murphv , Max Molin , J. Neumayer , Ed Haytics , J. F\ Kimball , II. Friedman , George II. Champ , Thomas Bowman and A. T. El- well , and the latter six gentlemen were linally selected. The only wit ness examined was Mr. Bcrnhardl himself , and the case was submitted to the jury after a short argument by Mr. West , who appeared for the defendant. The jury was out Just four minutes and returned a verdict for Sunday shaving. Will Supp lost a bet of cigars for the crowd , ns he lirmly believed that It would raiuiro live minutes In which to arrive at a * verdict. This settles nil of the cases in that court on this question , but another one against the same defendant Will be tried Thursday before Judge McGco. Desirable dwellings located in all parts of the city , for rent by K. II. Sheafo & Co. , Broadway and Main st. up stairs. If you wish to negotiate a loan on chattel or real estate security , at lowest rates , see E. II. Sheafo St. Co. , brokers , Broadway and Main street , up-stairs. Minstrels Hughes' hall , Friday night- See Mr. Mikado , the Jap from Manuwu. Don't fall to hear Toqtsey and Wootsey. - . From now until July 1 wo are going to knock all previous attempts at low prices. Wo will guarantee to sell you goods cheaper than you ever bought the same quality or money returned. Best quality India chullies ! 1 and 5 cunts yard. Good sateens 8 , 10 and Viyt cents yard ; the quality cannot be dupli cated in the city nt the price. All of our fancy dress buttons nt Just half price. Just think of it. Where can. you get such bar gains ) 'Only ut Cully's. Wo will sell yon yard wide sheeting He yard that is better than Lawrence L.L. . Good yard wide bleached muslin Co yard , worth 8\. Good divss Kinghams 0)40 ) yard , worth Si. ( Wo will save you money on all white goods , lace llouncings , gloves , mitts , tiose , corsets , fans and parasols. Baby caps at your own price ; we have too many. If you should happen to want a tine wool dress wo will save you at least 'Ji ! per cent. If you nro after bargains wo arc bound to get your trade. Ladies' imported hem stitched hand kerchiefs , fie , worth lOc. Hents' imported hem stitched handkerchiefs , lc ( ) , : ) for We , that are worth just deublo. This Is pretty largo talk ; call and see the goods and satisfy yourselves. Wo give a handsome present with each and every cash purchase to the amount of $1. i28 ! Broadway , C. C. Cui.i.y. If you wish to sell your property call on the Judd & Wells Co. , C. 13\. Judd president , GOO Broadway. Tlio gasoline steve is more dangerous than thounloadcd gun. Save life and property by using the C. B. Gas and Electric Light Co.'s gas stovo. Dempsey Bros. , J9\. > Main street , is the only place In town where you can get fresh and delicious confectionery. Sullivan Indicted. PUIIVIS , Miss. , Juno 23\. This afternoon the grand jury returned an Indictment charging John Lawrence Sullivan with prize lighting. Tomorrow is tno day set for trial. A petition to Judge Terrell is being numerously signed by leading citizens praying the court to be lenient nnd impose u line without imprison ment. ImliotmoiitH Xollod. CINCINNATI , O. , Juno 23.Thu indictments ngainst William Means mid Joseph Decamp , former onlcors of the Metropolitan National bank , were today nulled in .the. United States court. This ends nil criminal proceedings against them growing out of the bank failure. Wlinu Silver will ho Considered. WASIIINOTOS , Juno 23 , Chairman Conger of the house committee on coinage , weights and measures said today that ho would call the committed together tomorrow or Wednes day , when the silver bill will bo taken np for consideration. A handsoipo complexion Is one of the great est charms a woman can possess. Pozzonl's Complexion Powder gives it. CliiHH Day I5.xcroliCN litVale. . Nr.w HAVHN , Conn. , Juno 23\. The annual class day exorcises took place at Yale uni versity today. In the afternoon the class ex ercises were hold on the campus. Two thousand people were present. Drowned While Crossing ttio Tmkc , MIMVAUKKK , WIs. , Juno' . ' : ) . A special from Black Hiver Falls , Wis. , says James Hamil ton und his two sons were drowned at North Bend Into Saturday night whUo crossing the laku on logs. Through coiicnes Pullman palneo sleepers , dining curs , frco reclining elinir cars to Chicago nnd intorvonlng points via the great Itoclc Island route. Tick et ollico 1G02\. Sixteenth and Fiinmm. The Hallway Conductor * Split. Ni\v YOIIK , Iiino'J3\. There has been aspllt In the national order of railway conductors on the strike question and the scccdcrs have held u meeting and organized an opposition order. Pour Now Cardinals. KOMK , Juno 23\. [ Special Cablegram to TUB BKK. ] At the approaching consistory the [ wpo will niUo to n c.irdlnnlntu three Ital ian prelates and the archbishop of Vienna. A IjomiHt 1'lagno In Tripoli. Tiill'oi.i , Juno 23\. This county Is being devastated by locusts. The decomposed bodies of the Insects till the wells , Infecting the water. Gorman Workmen Strike. VIKNXA , Juuo 23\. ( Special Cablegram to Tut : BKK. ] There Is a general strike of ma sons , carpenters and bricklayers ut Briinu. Hundiiy Soliool Conv Mitlou , Pmsuuiio , Juno 23 , Arrangements have all been completed for the International Sun day school convention , which opens In expo hall In this city tomorrow. It Is ex peeled that over fifteen hundred delegate will bo present from all parts of the countr ; and Europe. Thli evening a prellmlnnr ; meeting was held , nt which n number o Interesting short addresses were made. 1 committee Is now engaged In selecting i scripture lesson to bo studied all over tin civilized world In ISOJ. When the work I completed It will bo sent to England , wuer It will be reviewed , und If there uro any sup gcstious to bo made they will bo noted am sent back to this committee for final dc clslon , IX TIIK COMMOX8. ClnuMOK of tlic LoenI Tnxn ( Ion 1)111Vltlidiauti. . LONHO.V , Juno SI. In the commons thi afternoon Smith , government leader , nn nonnccd that the government had decided t wltiidruw the license clause of the -local tnxn tlon bill. Smith said the government hai arrived nt the conclusion that It would bo Im possible to pass the license olalis In Its entirety. [ Prolonged opposltloi cheers. ] The clause contained thrci proposals : 1\. A certain portion o the new taxation of Intoxicants was to be np preprinted for the purpose of oxtlngulshliu licenses. ! i. Power wns to conferred 01 county councils to purchase nnd extlngulsl licenses. ! l. That the issue of new license : was to bo suspended. The first proposal hue received the assent of the house , so far a ; England was concerned. The government would proceed with the proposal as to Scot land and Ireland. With the second proposal the government would not proceed but would ask the house to allow the money for the extinction of license.1 to nccumulato until parliament should direct otherwise. [ Opposition cheers. ] The third proposal would stand. Gladstone expressed partial satisfaction nl Smith's amendment , but said the proposed amendment threatened difficulty. Its cntlic withdrawal would simplify debate. Smith said ho appreciated the spirit In which Gladstone siiolce , but the government could not disregard the fact that the principle of the purchase had received the approval ol n largo majority of the house. [ Cries ol "only four. " ] At all events the money ac cumulated would bo at the disposal of parlia ment. Smith moved the appointment of n select committee to Inquire Into the subject ol the continuance ofbills from session to ses sion. Agreed to. Replying ton deputation of publicans in the lobby tonight Hltchte , president of the local government board , said the principle of com pensation for the extinction of licenses had been accepted by the house and the money accumulated would bo devoted to that pur pose. fAM.lt COMJIISSiOXEitS. NuinlicrB ol' Them In Chicago DlKoiiHHliiK the Project. CHICAGO , June 23\. A largo number of world's fair commissioners , representing various states , have arrived in Chicago and tonight In all the hotels world's fair matters are being very generally discussed. Among the most interesting conferences was that between Joseph Hirst of Tampa , Fla. , and A. S. Mercer of Cheyenne , Wyo. Hirst had much to do with the allotment ol space at the centennial and almost entire charge of the recent Piedmont exposition at Atlanta. In talking of the matter of a site Mr. Hirst said : "If we can be convinced that the lake front can bo obtained legally and will revert to Chicago as a park after the fair Is over I don't think there will be a dis senting voice. This , however , providing there is room enough. " "There's the trouble , " said Mercer. "I don't think wo ought to open the doors with less than ono thousand acres. Just look at the number of states demanding ten acres each. Some of them propose to do wonderful things with that space. Utah proposes to reproduce Salt Lake and the country before and after irrigation , und with an exhibition of the irri gation process. Colorado will reproduce her mines and build a mineral palace. California will make woudcrlul exhibits. " "Well , If they really mean to occupy all the space they ask for the lake front will certainly , tainly not be sufficient , " said Mr. Hirst , "and I am utterly opposed to dividing the ex hibit. " The gentleman also discussed the recent sensational charges regarding the lake front. Mr. Hirst said : "You may rest assured that if there is any danger of that spot being ruined for any purpose for which the city may dc- sire it the commissioners will not aid any such schemes. " Nebraska and Iowa Pensions. WASHINGTON , Juno 23\. [ Special Telegram to TUB Br.i : . ] Pensions granted Nebraskans : Original navy Martin Snow , Blair ; David J. llorsman , Omaha ; David H. Holmes , Hastings ; John S. Patton , ' Lincoln. In crease Albert C. Smith , Blair ; Sylvanus Taylor , Wayne ; John Kowoll , Akron ; Ira Wobtbrook , KnoxvlHo. Widows Mary J. , widow of David II. Holmes , Hustings. Iowa : Original Korah T. Baker , Floyd Homer C. Murkham , Independence ; George Hammond. Anamosa ; special act , Douglas Smith , Cedar Falls. Restoration and increase Louis Davis , Marion ; Charles Dailey , La- monix. Restoration , reissue and increase- William H. Van Vulkenburg , Griswold ; Increase David "Whitney , Sabula ; Joseph Cox , Mystic ; Eli Smith , DCS Moiucs ; Daniel 1C. Goodrich , West Union ; Chester McEvers , River Sioux ; Walter Chittenden , West Lib erty ; Snnford Green , Murengo ; Richard Ma'rtin , Faragut ; J. H. Martin , Corning ; Jacob Fox , Richland ; Thomas Woods , dice- noy ; Alton Faiilker , New Sharon ; James T. Livingston , Newton ; Richard D. Coonen , Calliope ; David Munch , Kent. Reissue Clement P. Dunton , Manchester. Original widows , etc. , special act Mary B. , widow ol William Sticger , Keosauqna : special act , Elizabeth Foster , mother of Alfred Ogden , Burlington ; special act , Sulantha Williams , former widow of William Frear , Dos Molnes ; Jennie , widow of John Law , Washington ; William H. , father of Samuel Boals , Albia ; minors of Richard Foss , Council Blulls. South Dakota : Original Charles Alders , Plaukinton ; Henry Newmlre , Miller. In crease Samuel C. Burnett. Clark ; Conrad Eymcr , Tyndnll ; Edward Elkin , Watertown ; Henry P. Johnston , Chamberlain. Mot Them With a Itaml. COI.UMIIUM , Nob. , .Fund 20\. [ Special Tele gram to TIIK Bii : : . ] The traveling men's special to the Denver national convcntloi passed through hero at 11 : iU ! tonight und wai met at the depot by the Columbus cornet bam' and a delegation of the business men , whc extended a cordial Invitation to them to IK hero on the Fourth of July and attend th < traveling men's banquet to bo held in this city. _ _ A TIIK Iloat Itlowii to IMRUCH. NKW YOIIK , Juno : SI. The tug boat Allco E Crue , owned by Thomas O'Brien of this city , was blown to pieces ut her dock in Brooklyi by the explosion of the boiler early this morn Ing. The bout Is a complete wreck. Aslcoj ou the boat at the time were Captain Squires George Rogers and u deck hunt whoso mime is not known. The ) were killed outright. The lircnmnissupposci to bo killed nlt > o , for he Is missing. A ballast scowwhich was lying along stdo the tug , hat her sldo torn out nnd went to the bottom. II Is supposed that the watchman on board , whose name Is not known , went down will : her. The AVciitliui * Forecast. For Omaha and vicinity Fair weather. For Nebraska und South IJakota Fair ; continued high temperature ; southwestern winds ; cooler Wednesday. For Iowa Fair ; slightly warmer ; station ary temperature ; southerly winds. Down a Thirty-loot Kmhnnkmont. GUT.TOWN , Out. , June 23 , The Atlantic express , going east , was derailed near here this afternoon. Two curs wont down n thirty- foot embankment. E. J. McDonnell of Chicago cage was Instantly killed und seven or eight others severely Injured , but ncno fatally. The cause of the accident has not yet been defi nitely ascertained. ICIouted. UOMB , Juno U3\. [ Special Telegram to Tim Bui : . ] The successful candidates ut the mu nicipal elections uro all liberals , llulgnrlim Army OHlucrH Arrested. BUEUAHEST , Juuo 23 , Several Bulgarian Armv onlccrs have been arrested at Hust- chuch and Shutula. Special Ilatcn liuNfthrnfikn hy tlio Pns- BCtiKcr' 'JVpHoulatlon. KANSAS CITT , Mov , Jllino 3.1\. [ Special Tele gram to TIIK Ucli3-Tho Trans-Missouri Passenger nssoclntlcni today rondo public the following special rates'In ' , Nebraska : West Nebraska conference of the M. E. church nt Holdrego ; Nob. , September 11-10 A rate of a faro and , ' gpo-thlrd on the ccrtlll- cute plan from Nebraska points. Joscnh Gray , railroad secretuvy , Keuiney , Neb. , will sign certlllcntes. National Educational association convention nt St. Paul , Minn. . July 4-11\. Dates of milo from Colorado points , to Colorado common points will bo Juno 21) ) , July 1 and U ; llniil limit October 1\. Dates of sale from Nebraska will bo July 1-7\. Inclusive. Association of Congregational churches nt Columbus , Neb. , June 24-27\. A rate of ono faro and one-third on the certificate plnn from Nebraska points. State convention of the union labor party of Nebraska at Lincoln , Neb. , Juno 25\. An open ruto of u faro and one-third from Ne braska points. Ticket to bo sold Juno 21-23 ; return limit , Juno 27. State line reunion of old soldiers nnd sailors near Warwick , Kims. , August 10-23\. An open rate of one fnro and one-third from all points within seventy-live miles of Hardy , Neb. , nnd Warwick , Kans. ; tloKets to bo sold August 18-23 , return limit August 21. Jeffrey Will Not. Accept. CntCAno , Juno 23\. [ Special Telegram to Tin : BKI : . ] Said ex-Goncnil Manager E. T. Jeffrey of the Illinois Central to Tin : IJr.i : correspondent today In answer to a question : "Whether or not I shall accept the vlco presidency of the Lake Shore is not de termined. In any event I shall under no cir cumstances accept the oftlco of director gen eral of the world's fair. I could not do so in justice to my own business interests. Of course I have the Interests of the exposition deeply nt heart and will help all I can , short of accenting nn oflieo which will occupy the major part of my time. The Grant locomotives works will Mirely bo removed to Chicago and occupy the pretty green tract of land as contemplated. " Mr. Jeffrey declared ho had not decided to accept any present offer. His most intimate friends say he would accept the vice presi dency of the Lake Shore if lie were allowed to keep his ofllco in Chicago. As President Newell insists ho chall go to Cleveland , how ever , ho will accept the ofllco of general man ager of the Grant locomotive works Instead. The world's fair directors are almost unani mous in choosing him for director general , and are in hopes the Grant oiler will be held open for him until the close of the world's fair. They Meet the Grand Trunk Hates. CHICAGO , Juno 23\. [ Special Telegram to TUG BKI-Tho : ] central traffic lines today met the Gvuna Trunk rate of ! ! 3 cents on dressed beef , Chicago to Boston , at the same time the cattle rates were reduced to 111.1./ cents. It is not thought the dressed beef rate will fall below ! iU cents , as contracts with shippers have been made at that lignre. If rates go below. ! ( ) cents it will bo for the purpose of making competitors take the busi ness , us a 30 cent rate even will be n losing rate. Moltny Was Discharged. CHICAGO , June 23\. The case of the Mich igan Central railroad officials , who have been on trial in the United States court for an al leged violation of the ' interstate commerce law , closed this afternoon. Judge Blodgett discharged General Freight Agent McKay , there being no evidence to show that ho had any guilty knowledge of the violation of the law in the case. The cases of Messrs , Nichols and Summers were taken under nd- visemerit. TJtE Hon. George W. MoCrnry PIIHHCS Away at St. .loNCph , Mo. ST. JOB , Mo. , Juno 23\. Hon. George W. McCrary of Kansas City died in this city this afternoon. Mr. McCrary has .been afflicted for some time with n lunior In his stomach. Mr. McCrury was Jllty-ilvo years old. Ho was born at Evansville , Ind. In lS3i ( bo went with his parents to that part ot Wis consin territory which afterwards became the state of Iowa and began the practice of law at Keokuk in 18V > . Ho soon took high * rank. In lb ; ' > 7 lie was a mem ber of the state legislature and from 1 01 to 1805 state senator from Keokuk and chairman of the committee on military af fairs. In 1805 ho was elected to congress and served until March , 1877\. In IbiVi Judge McCrary introduced in congress the noted electoral commission bill. When President Hayes formed his cabinet McCrary was given the war portfolio , which he held for two years. Ho resigned to accept the judgeship - ship of the United States court , to which he was appointed in December , 187'J. Iti March , 1881 , ho resigned the judgcship and removed from Keokuk to Kansas City , where he be- cumo general consulting attorney of the Atchison , Topeka & Santa Fo railroad com pany , which position ho occupied at the time of his death. Interment will bo at Keokuk Wednesday. HocnisTiiiN. : : Y. , Juno 2\. ) , Patrick Barry died today , aged seventy-four. Barry has written n number of books on tree raising , the most valuable being the catalogue of the American Poinological society , which was accepted as a guide by American fruit growers and is regarded as a standard author ity throughout the world. JIACAMHEH'N ( iltKAT FEAT. Ho Sxviinn the lOasl KlvcrAKiiiii Bound Hand nnd Foot. xNr.w Yoms , Juno 2' ! . [ Special Telegram to Tun BKI : . ] "Geno" Macadlcr , the cham pion long distance .swimmer of St. Louis , fern n second time yesterday swam across the East river. This time ho was bound with a rope from his ankles to his shoulders. His feet were tied together and his hands were fast ened tightly at his sides. In each hand ho carried n two-poumV dumb-boll , cither n which would have sunk nn ordinary swlminct The dl.stant.-o covered was canal to nbon twice tlio width of the river at Grand street Ho left the navy yard nnd landed at IMor No 7\. Hast river , three-quarters of nn hour Intel Ho was accompanied by Stcvo Urodle. Th > party rowed out to n , point opposld Cole dock , followed by n llotllla o small craft. When the desired poln had been reached Hrodlo dropped eve the bow of the boat nnd Mnciulle was tin-own over the side. Ho landed on hi faeo , but turned on his buck and struck ou for the other side , swimming by drawing hi ; feet and knees up to his waist and then kick Intf strulirlit out backwards. The stroke Win n itowerful ono nnd nt times the swlmmci throw his shoulders out of the water. Tin swimmer was complete ! vsurronmled by boats nnd nome boys in an old skiff , In their nttcmp to get near , ran over nnd nearly succeeded n drowning him. Macudler was not Injured however , and swum sturdily on. The tldi was ebbing and ho was carried down tin river. In tylnjr the rope no allowance hai' ' been made for shrinkage by the water , am when Mucadlcr was taken out It was fount that his limbs and arms were Iwlly cut. Hi inailo the distance , about a milo , In forty-six minutes. Sleeplessness , nervous prostration , ncrroti ! dysiwpsln , dullness , blues , cured by Dr Miles' Nervine. Samples free at Kunu & Co.'s , lath and Douglas. JtJKI'VJHAlVAXS , Tlioy AVill Hold Tliolr Stale Omvon < lion ut Springfield 'fotlny. Si'iitXFiii.t ! : ; III , , Juno 'JH. The rcpub llcan stnto convention meets tomorrow. The principal contest Is for the nomination oi btato treasurer , the lauding candidates boiiif ; Franz Ambers of Chicago nnd Cicero J , Llndley , county Judge of Uoono county nnd president or the Fanners' Mutual Uenellt as soewtion. Tlio state central.committee met tonight nnd selected the following tempo rary onicers : Chairman , Hor.ico S. Clark ol Coles county ; secretary , Graeme Stewart ol Chicago ; assistant secretaries , , T. C. EdWards - Wards of Peoria and John Lynch of Olney ; chimhiln , I ) . IlUliimn ( colored ) of Spring- Held. The Judicial conventions meet Im mediately after the adjournment of the since convention. Bo sure and use Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup for your children while teething. ! i' cents a bottle. G A I'/J THE WMIOTS K TIlfXG A 1l\i V. A Train Ilobbor- Dies niul His Wife Con COSH : H. TnxAitKANA , Ark. , Juno i3\. ! Friday night HatclilTo , the wounded train robber , ( lied. His wife then mndo a full statement to the authorities that Williams , Brnwloy nnd Me- Daniel , assisted by her husband , committed the robbery nnd KatellA'o was accidentally shot in the darkness , being mistaken for one of the train men. All this has created tre mendous excitement owing to the peed stand ing of the robbers in the community hereto fore. When they were brought in for pro- imlnury trial today they withdrew their plea of not guilty and waived examination. They have been taken to Bonhnin , Tex. , for safe keeping , as lynching was feared hero. Hors ford's Acid Pliospliate For Sunstroke. It relieves the prostration and nervous de rangement. . - - The Storm tit Wiij'ii" . WAYXK , Neb. , Juno 'Ji. : [ Special telegram to Tin : Bin : . ] The most destructive storm that has ever visited this section struck hero last night. The truck is washed out west nnd under water east of town. Corn is very much injured and thousands of acres of small grain are entirely ruined. Corn will nrobubly average about half n crop. Some cattle and many hogs were [ frowned. A brickyard belonging to John Sherbahm was totally ruined. Several houses were blown down in the country and some were burned by lightning. So far no lives nro reported lost. It is iin- liossiblo at this time to state the amount of [ lamago done. The small crooks nro out of their banks nnd in many places over a milo wide and many farms nro inundated. This loss will bo i heavy blow to many , as this county wns figuring on an immense crop and many had made arrangements for its disposal. An Absolute Cure. ThoOKlGINAb ABIETJNE OINTMENT Is only put up in largo two-ounce tin boxes , and is an absolute euro lor all sore * . burns , ivoumls.clinpnea linnds and all skin eruptions. Will positively euro all kinds of piles. Aslt for the ORIGINAL , ABIET1NE OINT MENT. Sold by Goodman Drug company at 25 cents per box by mail ISO cents. Fatal Stroke of IKOXTON , O. , Juno -t. : Diirim. Sunday school at Sugar Creek , Stark county , the Methadist church wns struck by lightning .Hid . nearlv burned. Victor ? tllllcr was in stantly killed , and Louis Miller , son of the paMor , badly burned , mid Cornelius Smith ivndered unconscious and is in n critical L-ondition. CURES PROMPTLY STIFFNESS. STIFF NECK. Violent Tallin In Nock. FrieiitlclilpVis.Jniie H.1SSS. My wlfa liiul vl'ilunl | ilns In IILT nock , which wus vciy Mtto niul i > llll' . ? ho wns cured ntliuly by St. Jucolis Oil. JAMKS BTOWK. In Turrllilu T'nln. Ames MTR.Oo. , < ' ; liicopccMiir.s.1JnnelS , 1E6S l-'rnin nvur-czvrllon every bout ! was niaile mill'anil sun * : In turrllili * imlii. 1wis cured promptly by St. Jui'olis Oil. J. C. Jlt'CKLEV , I'nymnstcr. AT Dnvnm'iTs ANI > Dr.Ai.F.ns. THE CHARLES A. VOGELEI1 CO. , Baltimore. Ut. SPECIAL NOTICES. COUNCIL , BLUFFS. TjlOIl SAIjR or nptit-Oarelcn land , wmi J- homos , by J. It. lllco. 10J Main St. , Council IllufTs. WANTKD-Two enoreotio youiiH nu > n anil WOIIIIMI.VIIRO.I , W.'o n r day. No. W. ' MynnHTBlrci't , ronncll Hlnns. WANTED -Klrst-ola1 * * wood worker to run monldliiK inaclilne. 0\. llosun , Council AINTKIlS-WiintPd ntoiic-r. Mor I ordinary brush bauds. M. U. KdwniiU , Olonwood , In , V\7 ANTKI ) A lrl to do llulil housownrU for small family ! BOOH wanes. WT North MrststrcoU _ AIIUHINKSS Clmnco-A parly wlthtVXMUi I'XMHM can llnd u giMul Investment and em ployment In n pmllliililo ImsltiesH. For par- Honiara address/ , Care lice , Council lllnlTs In. rpYPRVnUTINO nnd Shorthand - I.ntu f. HliodcM has opened : i general offlco for shorthand and tytiuwrltlna and U proiar | d to tnku dictation cither attfioonico oronliltlo. Depositions and leial ; copying glvun special nttentlim. UoonH. llrown buirdlng. WHY pny rent when you can buy a liotnonn the same turins , and In case of your death utility tliiio Ipuvo yunr family the iionto clear on the following turm : A homo worth tl.ojj at 1 12 per month. A home worth * \M \ at its per month. A home worth j J.iHXl utt''l per month. A homo worthgMBO at 'W per month. A homo worth M.OJJ at JI3 per month. Othur priced homu.4 on the s-imo term . The iilxivn monthly payments Inolndo principal mid Interest. For fu'll particulars call on or luhlicss tho.Tu'ld ft Wells Co. . UOO llroadway , Uouncll l uirn. la. _ F Oil IlKNT Two Rood modern houses. W. \V. llllgur. ! ! 8 Pearl stroot. _ FOR UKNT The store room , No. 18 , fronting on 1'unrl .st. W. C. Jamus. WK HAVE several beautiful mo-loru h-riso that wo will tradofor cirjiirnlioroil v.io inlets lots In Umnlni or Council blulfs. The Judd & yVollsCo. . Uounull lllnirs. In. _ J. D. JACKSON , Guaranteed Dentistry , ( ioM crown niul lirUU'o work , IncliHlliiK nllllnc of pltili-s.-- ( inlil , riatlniiin. Alumnlum niul Cullululil. Conlonr llllliiK nnd cuntliiiiuu ] gum work Bpci.-lnl- slcs. J ? "Aio tlictlc8 Riven when ilo lroil Iti extracting tretli. Ulllcu iKiurn , 8 to 12 n. in. nnd 3 la I ! p. in. Onii-o muni , ) . ' .Mcrrlnm block , Council lllulld. F. M. ELLIS & CO. , Architects Awn ntm.niNO Rooms 4:11 : and 4'U Heo Unlldltr ' , Umaha , Neb , , and Hooms 'Jt and 'Jill Murrhini lilock Council Hlufl's , la. Corrobponduncu sullolteil 27 MAIN STREET , OverC. U. Jac < inemln & Co.'s Jewel ry stoio CHRISTIAN SCIENCE - , Classes instructscl , natleats received for treatment , and calls respinded to. The poor and needy always welcome. MRS. M. B. BENEDICT , 304 High School Avenue , Council Bluffs . . . . : iow. SIGN WORKS The Only Exclusive Sign Shop in the City. Sign writing and Brulnlii ! ; taught on appli cation. cation.D. . A. BENEDICT , 419 Broadway - - Up Stairs TIIK LAUOK8T STOCK OF PICTURE : FRAMES .AND MOUIA13INGQ F.vor brought to the wmt uro now on nalo nt our jitort' . The Rood * I'omprltio the ontlro wholesale Mock of .M. Adler , and were boiiKht at jherliT'n snlo nt IPM than - per ccntof whoh'xalo vnltip.Vo will sell you picture frames cheaper than von can buy the unlln * Ishcd mutorlal for , The utook comprises tlio ni'sl xnulnof itodilt mndo. ronin and HOP. MIos.V Whnloy , 4M llradwav , Uouucll lllilff * . ' ' heLurphy 'MANUFACTURING co. , 1st Avenue and Cist Street. Sash , Doors and Blinds , . Hand nnd Scroll HawhiR. Ilo-Sawlnit nml IManlnx. Suwlnp of all klndi. I'orch Urackuti. Kindling wood fc-.M pi > r load dcllvcrod. Clean vawdiiHt hy the barrel S.VJ. All work to to ! ; llrst-oluss. Tolophonc ! WJ. "YOUIt 1'ATltONAUI ! SOMCITED , " Titos. Ocriciilt , \V. II. M. OFFICKR & PUSHY , BANKERS. Corner Main nnd IIroadway. Council Bluffs , - lown. Pouli't-H In fonilKn and domestic o\cliuieo. : CollectIOIIH madu and Inturt-ot p.ud ou ttm deposits. MAXON & BOURGEOIS , AROHIT13OTS SUPERINTENDENTS. FINE INTERIOR DECORATIONS. KoomSSOMorrlaiu Illock , Council llluirs , la. itoom lilU N. V. Llfo llulldlng , Omaha. Neb. W.A.GOEHRING PRACTICAL HORSE SHOER. First Class work guaranteed In every respect. - 35 Fourth Street. _ - Council Bluffs - - Iowa * Electric Trusses. Belts , t 7  Chest Pr'otectors , Etc. Agents Wantea. DR. C. H JUDD , 11 BROADWAY , COUNCIL IOWA 18 MAIN ST. LAUNDRY. Phlrts lOc. Collars 2c. Cuffs Ic. tJndcr- fhlrts Scv Iliuidkurchlcfs ' 'c. tfoolis Uc. Luilles' clothes cheap. SATISFACTION OUAHANTKEI ) . JOHN SAN KEE. J.I ) . KDMUNIHO.V , K. L. HJUIOAiiiT 1'ics. Vice-Pros. UHAS. H. HANNAN , Cashier. CitizensStateBank OK COUNCIL IIMJl'KS. Paid Up Capital $150,000 Surplus and Profits 60,000 Liability to Depositors 850,000 DlliKCToim I. A. Mllii-r , K O. Olo.-ison , K. It \ Hlniuart , 1C. E. Hurt , .1\. I ) . Edmnmlson , Clias ] { . llanniin. Transact general hanklni : busi ness. Largest capital and surnlus ot any bank In onthwcstorii Iowa. InLerosLon Time Denosil.s. PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY. T-T TCi rLrtnKitiA Uydrmilic nmlStinitnrv Knjrinocr. Plans , Estimate J.J. . JJll 1S.1HU1U < SpeoilicatioiiH. Supervision of ] Jublio Work. Brown Huilding. C'oucil BlulTs. Iowa. N Justice of the Poaco. O.lico over American Express , No. . Broadway , Council Bfuffs , Iowa. OO6 Attorneys nLv.v. Pr.ictica in tha S tate nnd Foil O6 or.xl C. ) arts. Rooms 7 und 8 Sliutfa r-13eno Bloolc Council Bin low i A BIG LOT OF YELLOW -AND XAXSAMOXD SWEET POTATO PLANTS CABBAGES AND OTHER VEGETABLE PLANTS , FRUITS , ETC. xT. R. M'PHEIRSON , 4,1281 East Pierce Street Council Bluffs la , MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED. C. A. BEKBE & COMPANY Wholesale nnd Retail Dealers in FURNITURE. I urccst Stock nml Lowest 1'rlcrs. Dcnlcrc. semi Nos. 05 nml 1M7 Broadway , nnd 201 and 200 Pioreo Sti-cot , Council Bluffa , The above cut represents the new pavillion at Lake Manawa , built at a cost of $4,000\. It has a frontage of 208 feet on the lake , making a clean , cool and delightful resort , and is suitable . . . _ ' C * ' T * 'i i i r 1 1 i. - Splendid fishing , bathing and boating. Motor trains run every 30 minutes , making close connections with Omaha and Council Hluffs. Flectric Motor line. Good order is maintained.

THE OMAHA DAILY BEE, TUESDAY, JUNE 24, 1890 NEWS ABOUT THE BLUFFS Comparatively Little Damage Done by Sunday Night's Storm, SOME EXCEEDINGLY NARROW ESCAPES An Odyssean Memorial Communication Department at H.E. An Unfounded Storm Notice. The result of Sunday night's storm was apparent on every hand yesterday morning, although the damage done was not heavy. Trees in all parts of the city were broken, twisted, and shattered. The napaved streets in the upper portion of the city were quite badly washed and gullied, and the dirt from them was deposited on the granulated and block paving in the central part of the city. The washed-out paving on North Second and Harrison streets and Park avenue was found scattered along Washington avenue and along the bank of Indian creek in the lower part of the city. Comparatively little of the paving was washed away, but the streets were considerably damaged by the water underlying that which remained, making it difficult to drive over it. It will be found necessary to relay a great deal of it on this account. The washed-out places were repaired yesterday morning, new block was begun, dropped in, and covered with sand. This method of repairing caused a general howl. The property owners claim that the paving is now in such condition that another heavy rain would carry out the paving on the whole street. They say that in many places the blocks were raised up by the water but were not carried out, and that gravel lodged under many of the blocks when they fell back, which leaves an inviting passage way for the next heavy rain. The street supervisor had a large force of men at work yesterday cleaning away the mud and putting the streets and sidewalks in passable condition. The damage from the wood collars was very slight. The fire and police alarm circuits were broken, but were all repaired by yesterday noon. A large limb was torn from a cottonwood tree on South Ninth Street between Second and Third Avenues, which broke the wires and split one of the crossarms. It was a noticeable fact that the cottonwoods suffered heavily, and caused nearly all the damage that was done to the wires. A fireman expressed a wish that the council would pass an ordinance condemning all cottonwood trees along public streets, for this reason. The lightning struck the north Main Street marble works, stunning the foreman of the works and knocking him down. He was not severely injured, and was feeling nearly as well as usual yesterday. The building was not damaged with the exception of the chimney. Waterman's carriage factory was uninjured with the exception of a prostrated lightning rod. Miss Lillie Gilson, residing with her mother at 926 West Lincoln Avenue, was severely shocked by the lightning while returning home from the Methodist church, and was precipitated into the gutter which was full of water. She would undoubtedly have drowned had not help arrived. She soon recovered, and was able to be about yesterday. Choice residence property centrally located for sale by K.H. Sheafog & Co. S.B. Wadsworth & Co., 205 Pearl Street, agent for Lombard Investment Co. For one week, waterworks, $12.00\. New York plumbing company. It Was a Narrow Escape. The family of Robert G. Kirkwood, Jr., in Crescent Township, had a narrow escape from death during the storm. A large cottonwood tree standing near the house fell with a crash upon the building, demolishing it. It was a one-and-a-half story frame house, in the house at the time were Mr. and Mrs. Kirkwood and six children. The upper floor fell in such a peculiar manner as to form an arch, preventing the great tree from crushing through to the lower door. The family were thus caught in the wreck, but not injured. St. Francis Academy. The nineteenth annual commencement of St. Francis academy takes place in the commencement hall Thursday evening. The art exhibition will be open all of Thursday, also after the exercises are over. These annual showings of paintings, needlework, etc., are growing more and more in merit and interest. Every admirer of the fine arts will find a treat at the academy and the display should not be forgotten. The musical and literary entertainment in the evening will doubtless draw the usual crowd. The following programme will be rendered: Entrance .March I 'as usual . Matty Pianos Missus L. Herman, St. Louis, D. Young, C. Sear, M. Martin. Organ Miss M. Monroe. Choir "Beyond the Shadows," White Accompanists-Miss M, Henkle, N.Moore, M. Love. Organ Miss E. Duane. Overture. Miss M. Henkle. Hildegard Trio . Stradley Orchestra Members L. Burkholz, J. Murphy, H. Lucas, V. Laine, H. Carrig, M. U'Felli, H. Head. Reception . The Monk's Magnificat Miss Anna Drake. Overture . Verdi Sisters / . Lingo, P. Darragh, O. Wilkinson, P. Holmes, A. Wilkinson, P. Fitzgerald, A. Drum, K. Preo, M. Parrill. Ensemble (Class Motto) . No night . Duval Miss Maud Veiling. Cavalleria March . Ritter Missus W. Smith, M. Morris, D. Glass, J. Day, A. Burger, O. Everett, H. Jew, M. Hutson. Duncan of the trombones . Midland Misses M. Yut cer, L. Throll, J. Porcello, G. Everett, H. Row, M. Hutton. Overture . Cavalleria Royal holiday . Sullivan Misses R. Morris, K. Michoney, A. Gilles, A. Devlin. Essay . Curious to Touch the Elément Miss Mary Hughes. Uncle Sam's Policeman . Routling Misses N. Lacy, M. Hughes, D. Young, J. Porcello, H. Towler, U. Landis. Reception . The Convict Miss I.C. Duane. The Tempest . Vocal Class Accompanist Miss J. Keating, Faust do (gounod), (Two Pieces). Misses K. Duane, M. Henkle, Essay-talking Through a Key in the Valley of Futurity. Miss M. Mills. Transfiguration (inaugural) . Wagner Misses M. Monroe, J. Keating. Reception . Subjected Miss M. Henkle. Overture Night In Gramiida . Rozsa Misses N. Moore, M. Love, J. Keating, V. Muldoon, Verdi . Nabucco Misses A. Marrav, M. Monroe. Accompanist Miss N. Morton. Procession, Stars of the Night Our Voyager Us . Ramparts Misses M. Murray, A. Murray, M. Monroe. Accompanist Miss I.C. Duane. Conferring HONOR, Etc. valedictory . Thus Ends Our First Lesson Miss I.C. Divine. J.O. Tilton, real estate agent . 7 Broadway, J.U. Hicks by , Stream innating, sanitary engineer, WH Life building, Omaha; 204 Merrick block, Council Bluffs. A good hose reel for every 100 feet of hose purchased at Sully's, Deplored Oddfellowship, The Oddfellows of this city joined Sunday afternoon in paying more tribute to their deceased brothers, the occasion being the annual conformance to the provision made by the grand lodge. Dr. James McXuuthohton presided, C.H. Warren occupied the chair of vice grand. Miss Katie White served as organist, L.O. Huff as chaplain, Mr. J.J. Watt as musical director and Miss Barbara Anderson at the piano. After the ritualistic services Hon. D.C. Bloomer spoke feelingly in memory of the deceased members of Council Bluffs lodge No. 4, among those being James D. Test, George Doughty and F.A. Burke. Mr. Bloomer is one of the oldest and most honored of the members of the order and his long active association with the brethren rendered it most fitting that he should speak of their merits. His address was full of his thorough interest. Mr. O.L. Jacobs took in eulogy of the departed members of Hawkeye lodge No. 181, it was a tender tribute. Mr. John Schlickmann named on behalf of Humboldt Ledge No. 174\. Mrs. J.M. Matthews gave an address in behalf of Council Bluffs Hookah Degree Lodge No. Only ten of its members had died in twenty-two years. The exercises closed with the ritualistic service provided for such occasions and a general lecture by L.C. Huff. Music interspersed the program. Dr. H.S. West, the grand steward and bridge work, No. 13 Pearl. An Unrounded Humor. A great deal of excitement was occasioned on the streets yesterday morning by the report that a double drowning had occurred at Lake Manawa Sunday night during the storm. A trip to the lake failed to verify the report. As nearly as could be ascertained, the report was started through the finding of an empty boat which washed ashore. It seems that a man and a woman pulled away from the north shore in that boat shortly before the storm burst and have not been seen since. It is believed that they had not gone far and that they returned to the shore, landing as best they could and turning the boat adrift. In their haste to reach a spot sheltered from the driving rain, it was regarded as possible that they might have reached the south shore and remained there all night, but no one had appeared from that side up until yesterday afternoon, and it was not known what had occurred there. This theory was regarded as improbable, as they would not have drifted back across the lake against the heavy wind. The names of the parties are unknown, but it is not believed that they were drowned. The Manhattan sporting headquarters, 418 B-Minstrels June 1, "Black Friday" fun local hits, Ha, 1st Hughes hall. Fritz GOON Gree. The trial of the Sunday shaving cases was had before Justice Schurz yesterday afternoon, and the defendant secured a jury trial. The twelve men summoned as jurors were Bert Evans, W.H. Dooley, Oscar Kelley, J.A. Murphy, Max Molina, J. Neumayer, Ed Hayes, J.F. Kimball, H. Friedman, George H. Champ, Thomas Bowman, and A.T. Elwell, and the latter six gentlemen were finally selected. The only witness examined was Mr. Bernhard himself, and the case was submitted to the jury after a short argument by Mr. West, who appeared for the defendant. The jury was out just four minutes and returned a verdict for Sunday shaving. Will Supp lost a bet of cigars for the crowd, as he firmly believed that it would take live minutes in which to arrive at a verdict. This settles all of the cases in that court on this question, but another one against the same defendant will be tried Thursday before Judge McGee. Desirable dwellings located in all parts of the city, for rent by E.H. Sheafor & Co., Broadway and Main st. up stairs. If you wish to negotiate a loan on chattel or real estate security, at lowest rates, see E.H. Sheafor St. Co., brokers, Broadway and Main street, up-stairs. Minstrels Hughes' hall, Friday night - See Mr. Mikado, the Jap from Manawa. Don't fail to hear Toqtsey and Wootsey. From now until July 1 we are going to knock all previous attempts at low prices. We will guarantee to sell you goods cheaper than you ever bought the same quality or your money returned. Best quality India chintzes 1 and 5 cents yard, good sateens 8, 10 and 12 cents yard; the quality cannot be duplicated in the city at the price. All of our fancy dress buttons at just half price. Just think of it. Where can you get such bargains? Only at Cully's. We will sell you yard wide sheeting 1 yard that is better than Lawrence L.L. Good yard wide bleached muslin 1 yard, worth 8\. Good yard wide dress Kinghams 54x40 yard, worth $1\. We will save you money on all white goods, lace houssings, gloves, mitts, those, corsets, fans and parasols. Baby caps at your own price; we have too many. If you should happen to want a fine wool dress we will save you at least 15% per cent. If you are after bargains we are bound to get your trade. Ladies' imported hem stitched handkerchiefs, 6 cents, worth 10 cents. Men's imported hem stitched handkerchiefs, 1 cent, worth just double. This is pretty large talk; call and see the goods and satisfy yourselves. We give a handsome present with each and every cash purchase to the amount of $1\. 128 Broadway, C.C. Cully. If you wish to sell your property call on the Judd & Wells Co., C.B. Judd president, 600 Broadway. The gasoline stove is more dangerous than unloaded gun. Save life and property by using the C.B. Gas and Electric Light Co.'s gas stove. Dempsey Bros., 79 Main street, is the only place in town where you can get fresh and delicious confectionery. Sullivan Indicted. POLICIES, Miss., June 23\. This afternoon the grand jury returned an indictment charging John Lawrence Sullivan with prize fighting. Tomorrow is the day set for trial. A petition to Judge Terrell is being numerously signed by leading citizens praying the court to be lenient and impose a fine without imprisonment. Immolation Nulled. CINCINNATI, O., June 23\. The indictments against William Means and Joseph Decamp, former officers of the Metropolitan National bank, were today nullified in the United States court. This ends all criminal proceedings against them growing out of the bank failure. When Silver will be Considered. WASHINGTON, June 23, Chairman Conger of the house committee on coinage, weights and measures said today that he would call the committee together tomorrow or Wednesday, when the silver bill will be taken up for consideration. A handsome complexion is one of the greatest charms a woman can possess. Pottowlat's Complexion Powder gives it. Church Day Exercises Yale. NEW HAVEN, Conn., June 23\. The annual class day exercises took place at Yale university today. In the afternoon the class exercises were held on the campus. Two thousand people were present. Drowned While Crossing the Lake, MILWAUKEE, Wis., June 23\. A special from Black River Falls, Wis., says James Hamilton and his two sons were drowned at North Bend into Saturday night while crossing the lake on logs. Through coaches, Pullman palace sleepers, dining cars, free reclining cars to Chicago and intermediate points via the great Rock Island route. Ticket office 1602, Sixteenth and Fremont. The Railroad Conductor Split. NEW YORK, June 23\. There has been a split in the national order of railway conductors on the strike question and the leaders have held a meeting and organized an opposition order. Four New Cardinals. ROME, June 23\. [Special Cablegram to THE BEE.] At the approaching consistory the pope will appoint to a cardinal three Italian prelates and the archbishop of Vienna. A Pestilence in Tripoli. TRIPOLI, June 23\. This country is being devastated by locusts. The decomposed bodies of the insects fill the wells, infecting the water. German Workmen Strike. VIENNA, June 23\. (Special Cablegram to THE BEE.) There is a general strike of masons, carpenters and bricklayers at Berlin. Sunday School Convention, PASSAIC, June 23, Arrangements have all been completed for the International Sunday school convention, which opens in expo hall in this city tomorrow. It is expected that over fifteen hundred delegates will be present from all parts of the country and Europe. This evening a preliminary meeting was held, at which a number of interesting short addresses were made. The committee is now engaged in selecting a scripture lesson to be studied all over the civilized world in 1907\. When the work is completed it will be sent to England, where it will be reviewed, and if there are any suggestions to be made they will be noted and sent back to this committee for final decision. IN THE COMMONS. Chancellor of the German Empire. LONG TERM, June 31\. In the commons this afternoon, Smith, government leader, announced that the government had decided to withdraw the license clause of the local tax reform bill. Smith said the government had arrived at the conclusion that it would be impossible to pass the license clauses in their entirety. [Prolonged opposition cheers.] The clause contained three proposals: 1\. A certain portion of the new taxation of intoxicants was to be preprinted for the purpose of distinguishing licenses. 2\. Power was to be conferred on county councils to purchase and extinguish licenses. 3\. That the issue of new licenses was to be suspended. The first proposal has received the assent of the house, so far as England was concerned. The government will proceed with the proposal as to Scotland and Ireland. With the second proposal, the government will not proceed but will ask the house to allow the money for the extinction of licenses to accumulate until parliament should direct otherwise. [Opposition cheers.] The third proposal will stand. Gladstone expressed partial satisfaction with Smith's amendment, but said the proposed amendment threatened difficulty. Its earlier withdrawal would simplify debate. Smith said he appreciated the spirit in which Gladstone spoke, but the government could not disregard the fact that the principle of purchase had received the approval of a large majority of the house. [Cries of "only four."] At all events, the money accumulated would be at the disposal of parliament. Smith moved the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the subject of the continuance of bills from session to session. Agreed to. Replying to a delegation of publicans in the lobby tonight, Hitchcock, president of the local government board, said the principle of compensation for the extinction of licenses had been accepted by the house and the money accumulated would be devoted to that purpose. AMERICAN COMMISSIONERS. Numerous of Them in Chicago Discussing the Project. CHICAGO, June 23\. A large number of world's fair commissioners, representing various states, have arrived in Chicago and tonight in all the hotels world's fair matters are being very generally discussed. Among the most interesting conferences was that between Joseph Hirst of Tampa, Fla., and A. S. Mercer of Cheyenne, Wyo. Hirst had much to do with the allotment of space at the centennial and almost entire charge of the recent Piedmont exposition at Atlanta. In talking of the matter of a site, Mr. Hirst said: "If we can be convinced that the lake front can be obtained legally and will revert to Chicago as a park after the fair is over I don't think there will be a dissenting voice. This, however, providing there is room enough." "There's the trouble," said Mercer. "I don't think we ought to open the doors with less than one thousand acres. Just look at the number of states demanding ten acres each. Some of them propose to do wonderful things with that space. Utah proposes to reproduce Salt Lake and the country before and after irrigation, and with an exhibition of the irrigation process. Colorado will reproduce her mines and build a mineral palace. California will make wonderful exhibits." "Well," said Mr. Hirst, "if they really mean to occupy all the space they ask for the lake front will certainly not be sufficient, and I am utterly opposed to dividing the exhibit." The gentleman also discussed the recent sensational charges regarding the lake front. Mr. Hirst said: "You may rest assured that if there is any danger of that spot being ruined for any purpose for which the city may desire it the commissioners will not aid any such schemes." Nebraska and Iowa Pensions. WASHINGTON, June 23\. [Special Telegram to THE BEE: ] Pensions granted Nebraskans: Original navy, Martin Snow, Blair; David J. Horsman, Omaha; David H. Holmes, Hastings; John S. Patton, Lincoln. Increase, Albert C. Smith, Blair; Sylvanus Taylor, Wayne; John Kowoll, Akron; Ira Webster, Knoxville. Widows, Mary J., widow of David H. Holmes, Hastings. Iowa: Original, Korah T. Baker, Floyd; Homer C. Murkham, Independence; George Hammond, Anamosa; special act, Douglas Smith, Cedar Falls. Restoration and increase, Louis Davis, Marion; Charles Dailey, Lamoni. Restoration, reissue, and increase, William H. Van Vulkenburg, Griswold; Increase, David Whitney, Sabula; Joseph Cox, Mystic; Eli Smith, Des Moines; Daniel C. Goodrich, West Union; Chester McEvers, River Sioux; Walter Chittenden, West Liberty; Sanford Green, Burlington; Richard Martin, Faragut; J. H. Martin, Corning; Jacob Fox, Richland; Thomas Woods, Davenport; Alton Failkner, New Sharon; James T. Livingston, Newton; Richard D. Coonen, Calliope; David Munch, Kent. Reissue, Clement P. Dunton, Manchester. Original widows, etc., special act, Mary B., widow of William Stieger, Keosauqua; special act, Elizabeth Foster, mother of Alfred Ogden, Burlington; special act, Sulatha Williams, former widow of William Frear, Des Moines; Jennie, widow of John Law, Washington; William H., father of Samuel Boals, Albia; minors of Richard Foss, Council Bluffs. South Dakota: Original, Charles Alders, Plankinton; Henry Newmire, Miller. Increase, Samuel C. Burnett, Clark; Conrad Eymar, Tyndall; Edward Elkin, Watertown; Henry P. Johnston, Chamberlain. More Them With a Stand. COLUMBUS, Neb., June 20\. [Special Telegram to THE BEE: ] The traveling men's special to the Denver national convention passed through here at 11:30 tonight and was met at the depot by the Columbus cornet band and a delegation of the business men, who extended a cordial invitation to them to be here on the Fourth of July and attend the traveling men's banquet to be held in this city. A TUG BOAT Blown to Pieces by Her Boiler. NEW YORK, June 31\. The tug boat Atlantic E Cruse, owned by Thomas O'Brien of this city, was blown to pieces at her dock in Brooklyn by the explosion of the boiler early this morning. The boat is a complete wreck. Among those on the boat at the time were Captain Squires, George Rogers, and a deck hand whose name is not known. They were killed outright. The fireman, supposed to be killed also, is missing. A ballast scow which was lying alongside the tug had her side torn out and went to the bottom. It is supposed that the watchman on board, whose name is not known, went down with her. The Weather Forecast. For Omaha and vicinity, Fair weather. For Nebraska and South Dakota, Fair; continued high temperature; southwestern winds; cooler Wednesday. For Iowa, Fair; slightly warmer; stationary temperature; southerly winds. Down a Thirty-foot Embankment. GUTTOWN, Ont., June 23, The Atlantic express, going east, was derailed near here this afternoon. Two cars went down a thirty-foot embankment. E. J. McDonnell of Chicago was instantly killed and seven or eight others severely injured, but none fatally. The cause of the accident has not yet been definitely ascertained. Found. DENVER, June 23\. [Special Telegram to THE BEE: ] The successful candidates at the municipal elections are all liberals. Bulgarian Army Officers Arrested. BRUSSELS, June 23, Several Bulgarian Army officers have been arrested at Rustchuk and Shumen. Special Rates by the Passenger Association. KANSAS CITY, June 23\. [Special Telegram to THE BEE: ] The Trans-Missouri Passenger Association today issued public the following special rates in Nebraska: West Nebraska conference of the M. E. church at Holdrege, Neb., September 11-10\. A rate of one fare and two-thirds on the certificate plan from Nebraska points. Joseph Gray, railroad secretary, Geneva, Neb., will sign certificates. National Educational association convention at St. Paul, Minn., July 4-11\. Dates of sale from Colorado points to Colorado common points will be June 21, July 1, and 21; last limit October 1\. Dates of sale from Nebraska will be July 1-7, inclusive. Association of Congregational churches in Columbus, Neb., June 24-27\. A rate of one fare and one-third on the certificate plan from Nebraska points. State convention of the union labor party of Nebraska at Lincoln, Neb., June 25\. An open rate of one fare and one-third from Nebraska points. Ticket to be sold June 21-23; return limit, June 27. State line reunion of old soldiers and sailors near Warwick, Kans., August 10-23\. An open rate of one fare and one-third from all points within seventy-five miles of Hardy, Neb., and Warwick, Kans.; tickets to be sold August 18-23, return limit August 21. Jeffrey Will Not Accept. CHICAGO, June 23\. [Special Telegram to THE BKI:] Said ex-Goncnil Manager E.T. Jeffrey of the Illinois Central to THE BRI: correspondent today in answer to a question: "Whether or not I shall accept the vice presidency of the Lake Shore is not determined. In any event, I shall under no circumstances accept the office of director general of the world's fair. I could not do so in justice to my own business interests. Of course, I have the interests of the exposition deeply at heart and will help all I can, short of accepting an office which will occupy the major part of my time. The Grant locomotives works will mostly be removed to Chicago and occupy the pretty green tract of land as contemplated." Mr. Jeffrey declared he had not decided to accept any present offer. His most intimate friends say he would accept the vice presidency of the Lake Shore if he were allowed to keep his office in Chicago. As President Newell insists he must go to Cleveland, however, he will accept the office of general manager of the Grant locomotive works instead. The world's fair directors are almost unanimous in choosing him for director general, and are in hopes the Grant offer will be held open for him until the close of the world's fair. They Meet the Grand Trunk Rates. CHICAGO, June 23\. [Special Telegram to THE BRI: Tho:] central traffic lines today met the Grain Trunk rate of 1 3 cents on dressed beef, Chicago to Boston, at the same time the cattle rates were reduced to 11.1 cents. It is not thought the dressed beef rate will fall below 1 1 cents, as contracts with shippers have been made at that figure. If rates go below 1 cents it will be for the purpose of making competitors take the business, as a 30 cent rate even will be a losing rate. Moody Was Discharged. CHICAGO, June 23\. The case of the Michigan Central railroad officials, who have been on trial in the United States court for an alleged violation of the interstate commerce law, closed this afternoon. Judge Blodgett discharged General Freight Agent McKay, there being no evidence to show that he had any guilty knowledge of the violation of the law in the case. The cases of Messrs. Nichols and Summers were taken under advisement. THE Hon. George W. McCrary Dies Away at St. Louis, Mo. ST. LOUIS, Mo., June 23\. Hon. George W. McCrary of Kansas City died in this city this afternoon. Mr. McCrary has been afflicted for some time with a tumor in his stomach. Mr. McCrary was sixty-four years old. He was born at Evansville, Ind. In 1831 (he went with his parents to that part of Wisconsin territory which afterwards became the state of Iowa and began the practice of law at Keokuk in 1850\. He soon took high rank. In 1857 he was a member of the state legislature and from 1861 to 1865 state senator from Keokuk and chairman of the committee on military affairs. In 1865 he was elected to congress and served until March, 1877\. In 1877 Judge McCrary introduced in congress the noted electoral commission bill. When President Hayes formed his cabinet McCrary was given the war portfolio, which he held for two years. He resigned to accept the judgeship of the United States court, to which he was appointed in December, 1879\. In March, 1881, he resigned the judgeship and removed from Keokuk to Kansas City, where he became general consulting attorney of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe railroad company, which position he occupied at the time of his death. Interment will be at Keokuk Wednesday. Hoosier Y., June 23\. ) Patrick Barry died today, aged seventy-four. Barry has written a number of books on tree raising, the most valuable being the catalogue of the American Pomological society, which was accepted as a guide by American fruit growers and is regarded as a standard authority throughout the world. MACADAMER'S GRAND FEAT. He Swims the East River Bound Hand and Foot. NEW YORK, June 23\. [Special Telegram to The BRI:] "Geno" Macadear, the champion long distance swimmer of St. Louis, swam across the East river yesterday for the second time. This time he was bound with a rope from his ankles to his shoulders. His feet were tied together and his hands were fastened tightly at his sides. In each hand he carried a two-pound dumbbell, either of which would have sunk an ordinary swimmer. The distance covered was canal to aboard twice the width of the river at Grand street He left the navy yard and landed at Pier No. 7, East river, three-quarters of an hour later. He was accompanied by Steve Brodie. The party rowed out to a point opposite Cole dock, followed by a multitude of small craft. When the desired point had been reached Brodie dropped over the bow of the boat and Macadear tumbled over the side. He landed on his face, but turned over and struck out for the other side, swimming by drawing his feet and knees up to his waist and then kicking mightily with straightened legs out backwards. The stroke was a powerful one and at times the swimmer threw his shoulders out of the water. The swimmer was completely surrounded by boats and some boys in an old skiff, in their attempt to get near, ran over and nearly succeeded in drowning him. Macadear was not injured however, and swam sturdily on. The tide was ebbing and he was carried down the river. In trying the rope no allowance had been made for shrinkage by the water, and when Macadear was taken out it was found that his limbs and arms were badly cut. The mail over the distance, about a mile, in forty-six minutes. Sleeplessness, nervous prostration, neuralgia, dyspepsia, dullness, blues, cured by Dr. Miles' Nervine. Samples free at Barnes & Co.'s, 152 and Douglas. DEATH WAVE, They Will Hold Their State Convention at Springfield Tomorrow. SPRINGFIELD, Ill., June 23\. The republican state convention meets tomorrow. The principal contest is for the nomination of state treasurer, the leading candidates being Franz Amberger of Chicago and Cicero J. Lindley, county judge of Boone county and president of the Farmers' Mutual Benet. The state central committee met tonight and selected the following temporary officers: Chairman, Horace S. Clark of Coles county; secretary, Graeme Stewart of Chicago; assistant secretaries, T. C. Edwards of Peoria and John Lynch of Olney; chairman, D. Huffman (colored) of Springfield. The judicial conventions meet immediately after the adjournment of the state convention. Be sure and use Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup for your children while teething. 25 cents a bottle. GIVE THE WOMAN IN TRUG A HAND. A Train Robber Dies and His Wife is Con conversion. TEXARKANA, Ark., June 23\. Friday night Hatchett, the wounded train robber, died. His wife then made a full statement to the authorities that Williams, Brownley, and Mel-Daniel, assisted by her husband, committed the robbery and Katella was accidentally shot in the darkness, being mistaken for one of the train men. All this has created tremendous excitement owing to the speed standing of the robbers in the community hereto-fore. When they were brought in for preliminary trial today they withdrew their plea of not guilty and waived examination. They have been taken to Bonham, Tex., for safe keeping, as lynching was feared here. Horsford's Acid Phosphate for Sunstroke. It relieves the prostration and nervous derangement. The Storm at Wiima. WAYNE, Neb., June 3\. [Special telegram to The Brand.] The most destructive storm that has ever visited this section struck here last night. The track is washed out west and under water east of town. Corn is very much injured and thousands of acres of small grain are entirely ruined. Corn will probably average about half a crop. Some cattle and many hogs were drowned. A brickyard belonging to John Sherburn was totally ruined. Several houses were blown down in the country and some were burned by lightning. So far no lives are reported lost. It is impossible at this time to state the amount of damage done. The small creeks are out of their banks and in many places over a mile wide and many farms are inundated. This loss will be a heavy blow to many, as this county was figuring on an immense crop and many had made arrangements for its disposal. An Absolute Cure. The OREGAN ABIETINE OINTMENT is only put up in large two-ounce tin boxes, and is an absolute cure for all sore burns, wounds, chafed skin, and all skin eruptions. Will positively cure all kinds of piles. Ask for the ORIGINAL, ABIETINE OINTMENT. Sold by Goodman Drug company at 25 cents per box by mail $1.50. Fatal Stroke of Lightning. HUTCHINSON, O., June 3\. During Sunday school at Sugar Creek, Stark county, the Methodist church was struck by lightning and nearly burned. Victor Stilller was instantly killed, and Louis Miller, son of the pastor, badly burned, and Cornelius Smith rendered unconscious and is in a critical condition. CURES PROMPTLY STIFFNESS, STIFF NECK. Violent Sickness in Neck. Dr. H. F. Schlotter's Office, Jun. 3\. Mrs. A. K. Stewart had violent sickness in the neck, which was very severe and was cured totally by St. Jacques Oil. James Bowker, in Terrill's Office. A.M. STRAW CO., N.Y. Surgeons, June 3\. For many years' experience every bout made millennium and sun in Terrill's office. Was cured promptly by St. Jacques Oil. Dr. J. C. Gregory, Payson, Utah. AT Davon's and Dr. A. Fenn's. THE CHARLES A. VOGELEIN CO., Baltimore, Md. SPECIAL NOTICES. COUNCIL, BLUFFS. TO LET or apt-careful land, with homes, by J. R. Rice, 105 Main St., Council Bluffs. WANTED: Two competent young men and woman, by W. W. Myers, O'Neill, Neb. WANTED - First-class wood worker to run monotone machinery. C. Hosun, Council Bluffs. PAINTER - Wanted: More ordinary brush hands. M. U. Edwins, Glonwood, Ia. WANTED A girl to do household chores for small family. W. North, First Street, Council Bluffs. BOOKKEEPER - General Office for Shorthand and Typewriting and is prepared to take dictation either attention or on the spot. Depositions and legal copying given special attention. J. Brown building. WHY pay rent when you can buy a home, the same turning, and in case of your death, leave your family the home clear on the following terms: A home worth $850 at $12 per month. A home worth $1,500 at $30 per month. A home worth $2,500 at $35 per month. A home worth $3,500 at $45 per month. A home worth $5,500 at $65 per month. Other priced homes on the same terms. The monthly payments include principal and interest. For full particulars call on or address The Uold & Wells Co., 800 Broadway, Council Bluffs. FOR RENT - Two Good modern houses. W. W. Higgins, 8 Pearl Street. FOR RENT - Store room, No. 18, fronting on Union St. W. C. James. WE HAVE several beautiful modern houses that we will trade for certain unlocated blocks in either Council Bluffs or Omaha. The Judd & Wells Co., Council Bluffs. J. D. JACKSON, Guaranteed Dentistry, (gold crown and bridge work, including plating, cleaning, and aluminum and celluloid. Comfort building and casting gum work specialties. "Aides Given when door to extracting breath, Golden Furn, 8 to 12 a.m. and 3 to 5 p.m. Office hours, Merrick block, Council Bluffs. F. M. ELLIS & CO., Architects, Rooms 411 and 412, Omaha, Neb., and Rooms 7 and 8, Merchants block, Council Bluffs. Correspondence solicited. 27 MAIN STREET, Over C. U. Jacobson & Co.'s Jewelry store, COUNCIL BLUFFS, Ia. SIGN WORKS - The Only Exclusive Sign Shop in the City. Sign writing and Brusiling taught on application. D. A. Benedict, 419 Broadway - Up Stairs. THE LARGEST STOCK OF PICTURE FRAMES AND MOLDING Favorite brought to the west are now on sale at our store. The Good, Comprihensive entire wholesale stock of M. Adler, and were bought at sheriffs sale at 50% per cent of wholesale value. We will sell you picture frames cheaper than you can buy the unfurnished material for, The stock comprises the most modern rod iron made, roman and POP. Miles Whaley, 426 Broadway, Council Bluffs. MURPHY MANUFACTURING CO., 1st Avenue and Cist Street. Sash, Doors, and Blinds, Hand and Scroll Sawn Hardware, Ipe-Splitting and Shingle Sawing, Sawing of all kinds, Porti Crackling, Kindling wood per load delivered. Clean sawdust by the barrel. All work to first-class. Telephone WJ. "YOU'RE PATRONIZE SOMEONE, STAY IN TOWN," Titus, Clergymen, W. H. M. OFFICE & BANK, Corner Main and Broadway, Council Bluffs, Ia. Money in foreign and domestic orders. Collections made and interest paid on time deposits. MAXON & BOURGEOIS, ARCHITECTS & SUPERINTENDENTS. FINE INTERIOR DECORATIONS. Rooms 511 and 512, Moreland Block, Council Bluffs, Ia. W.A. GOEHRING PRACTICAL HORSE SHOER. First-Class work guaranteed in every respect. 35 Fourth Street, Council Bluffs, Ia. Electric Trusses, Belts, Chest Protectors, Etc. Agents Wanted. Dr. C. H. Judd, 111 Broadway, COUNCIL BLUFFS, Ia. LAUNDRY. Prices 10c, Collars 2c, Cuffs 1c, Undergarments 5c, Hosiery 5c, Linens 5c, Etc. Satisfaection Guaranteed. John Sang Kee, J. D. Edmunds, E. L. Houghton, Vice-Presidents. Chas. H. Hannan, Cashier. Citizens State Bank of Council Bluffs. Paid Up Capital $150,000 Surplus and Profits $60,000 Liability to Depositors $850,000 Directors: I. A. Miller, K. O. Colison, E. R. Hinckart, C. E. Hurt, J. D. Edmonds, Chas. J. Hannan. Transact general banking business. Largest capital and surplus of any bank in Southwest Iowa. In Interest of Time Deposits. PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY. Dr. J.J. Schlotter, General Practice and Surgery. Offices, Broadways, Council Bluffs, Ia. Dr. C. J. A. Starch, Office over American Express, 101 Broadway, Council Bluffs, Ia. Attorneys at Law, Practice in the State and Federal Courts. Offices, Rooms 7 and 8, Merchant Block, Council Bluffs, Ia. A BIG LOT OF YELLOW-AND NANSEMOND SWEET POTATO PLANTS, CABBAGES, AND OTHER VEGETABLE PLANTS, FRUITS, ETC. R. R. McPherson, 4281 East Pierce Street, Council Bluffs, Ia. MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED. C. A. BECKER & COMPANY Wholesale and Retail Dealers in FURNITURE. Largest Stock and Lowest Prices. Denver, semi Nos. 105 and 107 Broadway, and 201 and 200 Pierce Street, Council Bluffs, The above cut represents the new pavilion at Lake Manawa, built at a cost of $4,000\. It has a frontage of 208 feet on the lake, making a clean, cool and delightful resort, and is suitable Splendid fishing, bathing and boating. Motor trains run every 30 minutes, making close connections with Omaha and Council Bluffs. Electric Motor line. Good order is maintained.

sn99021999/1890/06/24/ed-1/seq-7/ocr.txt

r THE OMAHA DAILY BBM rUESDAY , JUOT lw71fiOa 7 I SPEC1RL NOTICES , OMAHA. nilvortlHCinenls will lie tnkoti fur C coliiiiuiH itHor 1H : 0 j > . in. .Toriim Cnsli I" mlvanoi' . KVr.UTJSKMKNTf * for these coliims will lie tnken until \1.VI \ : p. ni for tlm evening tlim nnd until 8no : p. in. , for ttm morning edition nnd HUNIIAY Ilr.K , rpKKMS-Uaali I" "dvnnce. thlapngo will bo for at the rate of 1VJ cent per word for the fllot inrortloii and 1 cent per word for each HtiliTqimnt ln ortlon. nnd 'JO cents tier word | ier month. No nil VprtNpinont taken for Ic f * than " 1 cpntf * for thn llrst tnsurtlon. TNITIALS. figures , symbols , etc. , count each .fnllKSI * advertisement1 ! must run consecn- J. tlvnly nnd undnr no circumstances will thpy 1 ' ) taken or discontinue ! by tulephone. 15AIITIK8 advertising In these columns and J. having their nnsui'i-s ' nddrc > st > d to a "IHIMI- berrd li'ttnr" In euro of Tun HRK will recelvo u ntimltured chcuk In cnnblo tlii-m to get their jotters. Answers will b dcllvcied only on jire pntiliun ! of IliUchrok. Knoloso answers in piitfptouo-f properly addressed. I , ndvcrllonmi'iitq under tha hnnd ol A ' lipclul Notices" are published In lioth tlm morning and nvimlng rdltlons of TMK 1 1 UK. tlm .circulation of which aggregates more than BMXX ) p-ipers dally , mid gives tlm advertiser the I rnullt not only of tlm largn circulation ot Tin : ItKt : In Omaha , but also In Council IllulTrt , Iilncoln nnd other cltlvs and towns In tlm west SUNDAY HAM'1 UATI2H. ADVKUTISKMKNTSj situations ortormnlo or female hi'lp. not pxcppillngSI woids In length , arc Insi'rtcd ' In Tin : SI'NDAV HKK nt half rates during tlm months of July nnd August. Tlm it'unlur rates will bo charged for pach nddldonnl word above 21 onls ns well as for consecutive Insertion * . BRANCH OFFICES. Advertising for tln .o columns will ha taken on the above renditions , attho following busi ness honscs who nru authorl/cd totako. special notices , at the sumo rates as can had at the main olllcc. OTTII OMAHA ISKANOI ! OFP1OE Pornor of Twenty-sixth and N streets , Nebraska Hayings Hank Iliilldlng. _ Ol I NV. . , I'harmaclst , 820 South Tenth > - c HASH k iiDY , Stationers nnd Printers liiSouth : ICth street. cs HriTATlNSWOIlTH , Pharmacist , 2115 Cum- , Ing street. \\7 .T. I1IIOI1ES , Pharmacls't , B2I North ICth VT street. EoiW. I'AKK , Pharmacist , 1718 I.cavcn- w'oi'th'tftrcct. ' UGHErf' P1IAUMAOY , 24th and Farnain. SITUATIONS \VANTKM. . ? JTEI > Situation by ono Urst-clas -lead and cake baker nnd second band. Hire 4tt Krug's hall , U M lOlh. MI-SI * Position In wholcMilo or retal IIOIIMI as saltsmiin "Or assistant book keeper. Have long e.\perlenco In letall busi ness a.s buyer and salesman. Can glvo rufer- ' puce or security for icsponslblo position. Ad- dicss II 43 , The lice. 418-2:1 : * STENOG1CAIMIEK ( leiitleman. 2 years ex- nerlencc. bust lufciunces , 11\. , 52 Hee , or Telephone ir.lT , . W-l ? * _ \\TANSI'D Position In store or olllco by V > brfglit , Intolllgent boy of thlrtuen who Is not afraid of work. Address H 42 , The Jlce. 4UD-23 * WANTWD J K 11 Kill * . W ANTED Coachman. Noonnnoed npply without best of city icfciencos. uaa . 553. " \ATANTKI ) A good enorgctln man who can T inn an engine. Is a good baud wlthcar- pi'iituih'tools , Is willing to work at anything and make himself geneially useful about u ranch ; state ago and experience. Addiess tlmStanton Hreedlng ' ' 'arm I'o. , MndNoii , Nob. Kip 24 \ , \ ' AN'l'r.D A ( list-class coatmaker at once ; ' steady work. Opera House Tailors. Sac CJIt y\t\ \ \ . 40-J SI * "V.\7ANTnn An active man for each section T > salary JT.'i to $100 , to loeally repiesent a piiQcessfiif N. V. company , Incorpointed , to ripply dry goods , elothlng , shoes , jewelry , He. , to consumers at cost. Also a lady of tactsalary * 10 , to enroll members ( sO.OOO now enrolled , § 100.000 paid In. ) Inferences ex changed , Kmplro Co-Openitlvo association riedlt well ratedlock ) IjoxUlO. N. Y. " > A1JO'KUH Wanted"at once , 3 or 4 ordinary brush bands. M , U. Ed wards , Olcnwood. la , fijil-31 " \\7ANTKD Four men 21 to'.O yrs. old , fair education and good address , for Ncbr. J. M. Kiencli & Co. , f > 1'a.xton blk. , Omaha. 5JK-23 A qUNTS wanted , 1R now specialties , all fust XX hellers ; no experience nerossary ; big money ; sample froo. Address E. 0\. Itrowhtor , Holly. Midi. - Salesmen on salary or commls- Hlon to handle Urn now Patent Chemical Inl : Erasing Pencil. The greatest soiling nov- nlly ever pioduccd. Krases Ink thoroughly In two set ends ; no abrasion of paper , 200 to 500 percent profit One agents sales amounted to Wi'S ) In six days ; another f.12 In two hours. Wo want ono energetic general agent for each Rtatu and territory. Sample by mall 35 cents. For lei HIM and full p.n tlculars , address Tlm Monroe Eraser Mf'g Co. , La Crosse , WIs. 500-24 * - AGI-lNTS WANTED-Competont men can -V now make valuable contracts for general nnd special agencies In Nebraska , Iowa nnd iviinnas wiin i no uiiaraiiiy IIIIIIUIIIK nnu i.o.'in iiKsDohitlon of Mlnneapidls. Minn. , ono of tlm oldest nssoulatlons In the Held and well estab lished. Parties deslrlnir remunerative posi tions should pivi ) this piompt attention , as thc-o openings will soon bo filled and sueh vacancies will not occur again for years. Wo furnish our ngents valuable assistance In their work. Know what to do and do It. For further information , descriptive circulars , etc. . nddioss II , E , Falrclilld.sooiotary.Mlnno- ttpolis , Minn. 508-27 * TtrANTfiD-llny about 1.1 years old to learn T ? Din jewelry trade , Swede preferred , ICoom 10 , I5ylouslas ) st. f > 3ii.2i : VVA'S'TKD Two men to travel , must be T willing to start on small subtly. Addiess Lock lUix ( 4 , Coliimbiis , Neb.5HI-24 * SALKHMKN to cell specialties to merehants by sample ; salary paid to good men ; sam ples furnished ; steady Munition ; Model Man ufacturing Co. . bouth llend. 1ml. 4'iijy ) * WANTED A salesman to carry line of teas and cigars on commission through HouthiM'sforn Iowa. l'\trn inducements of- ft feied ; also man to woik Omaha city trade. rAddios Uuorgu A. Kennuid , tit. Joseph. Mo. \\7 ANTKI ) WKI laborers for extra road TT gangs. Apply to I1 , H , Johnson , H. & M. passenger depot. Oiniilia. 4b8 \\rANTJJl > Architectural drniightsmon. .1 llodgsoji , jr. , 515 Hro\Mi block , JHth and 4.vi ai I " \OOTOK wanted ; loom Ion tlrht-cla ; stale J-Mvlien \\licregradualed , whether dom- ourator icpuhltuan ; give referonci > s. Inolnio stamp ; regular only. Addic&s II 'M. Dally llee. Oniiiha , 412 2- VJTOTTRMAyONS wanted at Norfolk and kJlloutilcc. Uood wages paid. M. T , Murphy. _ * 1 lo A lioYl ( itiuid o.NpenMi-nuilJe'r forcaiivassers -rvK\erylodybuy l\V.ll.l'rlcclavhH'lty.Neb , ) ' " \\rANTKl ) Men to travel for our Canadian > > nursertvi. titoim&Wcllington.MaillMin.Wls * 757 _ . ; - ; xVproilt Tn 4 weeks or no pay. Add. , with Htump ; JurvU & Company , Itaclno , WIs. * r\rANTii : ) l.otM men for'rullnmil work In V > Wyoming , Dakota. IMah and Nevada ; vases tl.73 to * i'.MI ; steady work. Albright's l.abor.Agcnc-JljWl } qrniim si. blljyl * \\AAJrflI > SitTi'inieu ut 174 per nmiiTli sal- Tl ary iindexpenni's tOholla line of silver- plated wuro , wutelied , ulo. , by sample only : bor > e and team fiiruUhod free , wrltu at oneo for full particulars and bamplo caMiof goods flee , vitumlurd Silverware Co. , Huston , Mass. . _ _ Ml \\7ANTKD J'nergetlu men ami women for u TT eitfelbn | hioiittyjngt0 ( ! weekly proilt ruxler than fee monthly otlmrwUei experience \uineceasiiry ; peinmnent piKltlon and exolu- Mvetutrltory iM > iniudi &J samplen freg : lnvu - thtatooUr money-mad lint bu iiu > i < s. Address wltlmtuiiii ) . Murrlll Mauufauturlng Co. . It KJ , Olilcugo , 111\. Wljyia * makers MisVll. O , Moses , 'JiSh Farnum. 60i-2r ! * 'QllUi ' for housework , bl7 B lUth bt. 7T " \\rANTHD.-T\so uxperlenceit blnilcry girls TT ut U.K. Whitney's book blndory cor. TJih jind Kiirniim. 4sj a * \\f AWj'KUr-A capablu girl lo do gunorai TT housework for smttll family ; good wuues. ( 'all at HI.I North Knd bliuot. 4M ( gl * /3Q01) ) HuUtlmnas. luxfoapltol uve. uve.fllOSI - T1 ! 'Mfiil.M'.l'Tin-nt- colore'd widow lady for . . iiVI * ° k * ' I'qusuUeeimr ' with bon from eight to lifiuun yearH uld.kcnU icfur ncci * und wages. AiiartttH . ! . llee. jj.tl. _ V jjj _ " . . . . _ \\rANTKD A giiod" girl to do cuiTTtlirg au < l Tt KenoNl Imusvworklii family of two. Mw. uoiinull | ) , 411 North lUth t. , up stuiii , . LIM w ANTEb flood cook nnil laundress for mnall , family , la H. Utli at. ar 4 nay Indict n palnry of $10 per week to work for mil In Ihulrlocallty nthomc.llKlit work , peed lmv for part time.Vrlto wltt .stump , Mrs. II. r. ramngton , lxi < 702 ( 'lili'iigo * ANTI-ll > - lrl for dining nml chamber work. Uornn house , t'ii H 19th at. , I block south of courthouse. ! CCI W ANTKDOlrl for general housework , two In family. 1112 K. loth st. 191 _ _ fil > * ! 'Irstelntis second girl , family of 10,2221 Howard st. Mrs. Krncst Klall. \VANTRD-OltI for Rcooml work. Call at T T N , W. corner 24th nnd St. Mary's nvc. K > i-3.1. WANTED Two ladle * , ono bov to rocelvo InMriirtlons and I MU > hooks In .Inly. J II. Smithl 0 Now York Mfi building. ( : . ' \j\rANTKD--Agood girl for housework. 2135 TT 11 a nicy. Ml 25 * GIHI.H wanted to stitch on ladles'shoo up pers ; those having experience with power machlncM preferred , W. V. Morse & I'o "lATANTKD 1st and 2d elrls In private faml- ly ; best of wanes paid. 721 H 10th st. . cor ; tier or Lcuvcnworth st Mrs. J. L , Ufindela. 177 ) Tnree experienced tuning room ulrls at tlm llnrker hotel. : ) H DHKHSMAKING. M US. K. U. Hansomc. Oil S. 10th. fuHhtonablo drcasmuklng , Italloy system taught. 187Jyl2 ENnAar.MI NTStodoai-pHS tanking In fami lies solicited. .Miss Stuidy , K S. 25th avo. FOH ItKNT HOUSES. TJIOIC KENT Small honsoll pur inoiitli , r. J-A Wilkinson , UW I'a.xton blk. 0)8 ) 1J1OU HUNT tfurnlshrd house ot 7 rooms JU from July 1 to Outobor J , near Hnnscon I'ark , ia s.Bd. : f'i ) T71OU KHNT Itpsldoncps In all parts of city. JL1 1,1st too Inrgo to publish , ulobu Loan & Trust coiiiuiuiy , ; W7 S. 10th st. G71 TT1OK KENT Attnodernto rent , tlm three- JL ; Htory and 1'ascment brick building fltuateci at No. 111U Douglas sticot , suitable for manu facturing , wbolesalo or warehouse purposes , also one stoic and basement. No. 107 S. l.lth st. Apply to ChaS. Kaufnmnn , 1WJ Douglas .st. "THOK Itr.NT Aliout Juno 1 , the o elegant JM one residences on Georgia ave. , S. 20th st bet. Mason and Pacific sts. dee owner for long time lease. 11\. H. Henderson , room 400\. I'a.x- ton blk. 57t FOH KENT Furnished for the summer , a 7-rooin house , all improvements , 1 block from motor. Call or addicss K. U. Mcdure KtU'aikavC. 'Jit T71OK KENT 2 line pressed brick houses , cusl -L fronts on Oeoigla ave. , Just north of l.o.iv- cnwoitli st0 looms , bath , furnace.sower con nections , ull conveniences ; will rent to ro- sponslblo parties for $50\. M. A. Upton Co. , llith mid I'arnam. 740 TTIOK HHNT llonso , JO rooms , all modern JL'Impioxemcnts ; hirgoyaid , Winer month. ComiiiKslou to scents. Dexter L. Thomas. 507 IF YOIJwl4h tordit a house or store flee II K. C'olej Continental block. .VII TTlOlt KENT Two of thn finest residence flats Jon Houlli lOtb street , with all modem con veniences , hot and cold water , close to Itiown- ell hall. Fltst class surroundings. Apply to Olum. Katifmann. I3T2 Douglas st ren "IIHNK house , 0 looms , water , KL er , at 1'WIIN JL ? 2ith bt. ; 3 rooms atdOS North lath -.trcot. 4 ? > at * IJlIVKronm cottage , 2.111 i-enportst , . $20 J1V. . h. yulby , lit Hoard of tiadc. 47.1 TT1OK KENT Good 10 room house , sewer , JL1 water , gas , bntli , barn , furnace. . In cleganl shnpo , cheap. D. V. Hliolc-s Co. , 213 l-'lrst Nat'l bank. ! Bt KEADY for yearly tenants , fi : : ) month. Tlm beautiful new brick 8-room modem houses on Lakcst. Imiulrc 2).HJ. ) Take 10th st. motor. 48 i-2.1 * TTTOIl KENT 12-ioom brick house , with all J modern Improvements. lij.S.-'Othat. : Cheap. AKo a nlco4-room cottage on N. 17th st. Judge Anderson. ! lll G OOD boarding house for rent veiy elieap In boiltli Umahu. Innulio GOO South loth st. GFO1C 400 Si * FO1C nrjNTJ Dwelling , ! > rooms , stable , and all reqiilieinents for a first-class home ; south front ; 2508 Capitol uveiiuo ; rental very low. Inuulro at iwil Farnam st. OtK ) i-ICOOM flat with steam boat. 10th sr. near Jones. Thomas F. Hull , 311 Paxton bloek. " | TOU * KENT 10-room brick liouso , with mod- J ern convenlonoes , No. 811 S. 20th st. Apply at No. B27 S. 20th st. 57.1 EOK KENT T-nmin house with barn ; nom inal rent to good party. 0\. F. Harrison , Oil N. V. Llfo. 111 T7IO1C KENT 10 rooni house , 2107 Douglas. JL ? Iiuiilre2111 | Douglas. 810. FINE rcsldctico. modoin improvements , 2108 Si. Mary's ave. . $61 per month. Iiiiilio | at premises or at A. Holler's. 1114 Farnain. 150 T7HN F. 7-room dwelling with yard , J2.1. JL' Also , H-ioom dwelling with yard , $30. 0 and 10-room dwellings , $ .1.1 to $00. Smeaton & Allen , ICOO Furnam st. 1.13 .ly 12 T > ESIDENCF.S-2.1th mid Ilnruoy. For prices Jl Vseo Paul. 1009 Furnam. 173-iO : T71OK KENT About Juno 7 , S-wom house 33d JL1 and Ciimlng sts , $ J5 per month. C. F , 11 itirisen. Oil N. Y. Llfo 4S ) TTT1OII UKNT Vnrv nl ( n7-ifinni linil o r Rtinnlnt - terms made. Apply to Fletcher oung , imbler Place. 2 ! T71OK KKNT 5 room liouxo. c < x > d lepair , nice JU yard , cistern wntnr , rent $22\. Apply to 1IJ' ' ) South 7th ave. or to Jno. W. Hell , drugg'lst , 10th 515 FOK ItKNT UOOnrS FUJtXISHKP. VJ housekeeping ; nice yaid : near car lines. 1(110 ( N. 22d st. 631-24 * _ _ O HEAUTrVUL rooms with first class boaid. J 1814 Dodgu stieet. 40.1-21 * M ItS. UlliriCQIIlTiL. 411 N. llith stieet. has now several desirable rooms with boaid. 52.1-2S * ROOMS Jorliousckccping , 113 S. ITth , : / ) . - . 2.1 * IJOOMS-Toient 212.1 Dodge , for gentlemen t only. 1'ileo hiodcrato ; modem conveniences . 4S7-J.J-4 * rpWO choice looms with board. In private JL family , nlcojy situated , 21110 llurnuy , . T AKOK south loom for two , with boaid. -i-'lliiiMPcnmfinK guaranteed. All convon- jenc'eH. 1U11I Dodge. 4 0-2i : * L'JM-.ASAM' south room , with board. 1S22 Chicago. 511-28 * TTIOIC lCENT--Allnew and tastily furnished JL1 rooms at atTfi"N 15th st. 128 27 * N 1CELY furnished i\oms,2i21 ) ! Farmim. fu.l-21 * liKNT Fuinlshed or nnfiirnlshod sat 1.110 Lea\einvorlli. , IMI'4 * 1 010 Capitol avciiuo A south socon story J loom und alcove with board , suitable for tliico youngmen or gentleman and wife. Itef- pivncesp.Nulianged , ' 018-23 * FOK KENT-Cool , plensiiut furnished rooms , 1814 Dau-npiiil. 013-24 * 31COOMS frtr hOiisoUeoplng toman and wife ; nochlldioiii rent taken In board. 310 N. 17th. : ail-3o * KOOMS , with board If desired , 1008 Cap. live. 232 27 * | OOOL. pleasant rooms. IJKUi N. IStll , Hat "J , " wlthuist-clubs boaid , for gentleman , _ 375-J 2.1 * FOK KENT Two furnished front rooms , with bay-wfndow , modern convenlenccH , * H and (4 per ntonlh , with or without bouid. 2218 l.eavon ilh | > t. 812 "H101C UENT-Furnlslmd , rooms , ! ? ' ! Capitol nv - BlTJyl * 1T10IC UI'NTr-Nevr ( urnlslied hi.ms In Now 4Tcrraije , wlihorwHhoutboard , ut lonsou- able ratcx. ? I28 Itutm'y at. : tiO " 11O1C KKNT-41'uruisi a Julius. 1009 Douglas , ; * 5711 1T10IC ICIiNT Nicely 'fiirnlshod loom , all JL1 miMlernl-onvenlcnces , 2 blocks from P. o. , plSalitbst. 077 17NJ1C ItKNIV-A lurgo und nloely fiirnUhcd ' -L' room front ug on tiaplto ) avenue , cast of the hluh school. Private fiimlly. Siiltablu fur two or thice guntleiuon. Addroas U , 51 , Heo. U33- "TTIOK KENT PurnUhed rooms ; BUS , buth and JL' htcuin ; 1511) ) lloward. OT t.CLAI1C ; European'hotel , coiner 13th aiul kJDodge. rtpt'clui rates by week or mouth. 570 FOIC KENT A lurge front room , furnished , In one of tlm Uncut resiliences iu tlio elty , P.4 S. 1'Jlli st. . corner Leavcnwortb. 811 J < 'CJlVjiil NT STOitK8'AN _ IpOIC KENT -3unfurnished roomii,20t * N. 13th TJ OK KENT Corner store , 701 S. 10th t. , * < W ; - IiH'st etiiro and location on street ut the irlce. Ucur-fu CIou ur , 7U1 South lUth st. 4M20 * EOIl UHST Ilrlck warehou . two Morlrt nml basement 27,000 wiunro foot , with 1M fcntof double track on I. I * , railway , south Ullli rind I'lerco streets. Address O. Osknmp , Onmlm , Neb. 61'J T7UNK oflleo nt mall figures on ground lloor , JL1 In lloyd's opera IIOIKC. lniitlro ) of Amerl- ojiii Kiicl Co. . 81.1 f. nth at. I'M ' "T71OH KENT I unfurnished room * to family JL1 without children ; modern improvements 1701 Webster st. 1'rlco tl. " > . IN ) basement 31th nnd Lonvcnworth v-'st , ! good place for liirl > or fdmp. J5 per month. 1IM-3.V "VTKW building , hnnd'-omely Mulshed stou11 * J-i niul Hum : all modern ImnrovonientS ! steam lieit : In MMISCMU cor. I.cavetiworlh and IHthsts. Inquire Kolkonny ft llray , Continental htk , THOUItFINt-Snmll store room. . South JJ Tenth , four doors from depot. .Suitable for fruit orelgar storo. Apply ticket ofllec , H)7i-oiitli ) IQlli. (00\. ( 8TOUKS at TO ! ) . S Ifith. 12x00 onnli. largo aliow windows , strain ImalfurulshOd. 'I'lios 1' . Hull. 1111 1'axton blouk. Ml T71OK UKNT Thi'4-Mory brick building. With JL' or without power , formerly occupied bytbo llco Publishing Co. , 010 I'nrnum st. The build ing li 4 " fireproof comert basement , complete steam hunting fixtures , water on all the floors , gas , etc. Apply attho ofllcoof Tim HI.HI. Ol. > . ItKXTAIj E. . IUKY. rental agent , 200 N. Yt'Llfo.TOi . TOi ) I OUTON'a rental agency , M7 1'u.xtoa lilock . tM E. COMi rental agent. Coiitlticntnl blk. f/KJ AflSOKIjIjAMSUUS. T > AUTIKS wanting thclrlawns cut and taken X care of address or call on John U. fclimllt , 621 N. 27111 live. 001-Z1 * M AD STONE I have n gentium mad stone. I * llenbow , 12Ci no. ait t KH-Jy * WANTED Ten to twonty-tmrso power en- glnu and bollor. Address 712 N. 28th avo. , 471.a * . . WANTED Houses or stores , clear of In- ciimbrnnce , In othci' Nebraska or Iowa towns for Incumbcrod Omaha real estate. Stringer & I'cnny , Douglas block , IGth and 1 Jpdge. 2U1 \\rANTED Good commercial paper. NoT - T T Uraska Mortgage Loan Co. , Ml ) I'axton blk. ! a I7HJUN1TUUE , householdgoods.oto. Highest J cash price. 317 S lath. :17.1 : _ i-jTq uicSu key fitting at Hcllln's gun simp ,111) ) N. llUh. 4iO : Jyll ) PAHASOLS , umbiolhiH and wagon timhrol- lascovered and lopalied. Walking canes repaired. U. llalor , IJlJ Douglas ; basement ill ) JL/ diseases of women a specialty. Hoouis 1 and 2 over lilO H. IJItli. 515-27 * T OUISK Hl'NNKTT. from Chicago , the fa- J J moils masseur and magnetic manipulator. I'nrloi.s. : illiN. IDIIi st. 202-24 * KMOVAh-Mi-- . Day has fitted up ele- t.gant bath looms , No. 110S Dodgost. . tlm ground lloor , and Is now prepared to glvo Hot Hprlngs baths with electricity. All sulToilng from rheumatism , la grippe , paralysis or dropsy will do well lo call upon her. S48Jyli ! MASSAGK and magnetic tieatment. 1113 1'a- ciflc , halt block fiom motor line.016SO 016-SO * MASSAOK treatment , olcctro , thermalmed icated batbs.healp & hatrtreatmentiiianl- cure & chiropodist. Mr.s. K. M. I'ost. 413 H. 10th. 8ft.y | r > * I'lIOlOGltAl'HtC. AHKyougolng to takoa vjicatlon or a trip , If HO don't go until you buy ono of lloyns amateur photo outfits. 20 styles to select from. Ull Dodge st. gj-i PKNSION AGIONCV. EN. CLINOMAN , exclusive pension attor- ney , K 10 & 21 , Kren/er blouk , Oinaba ; also Cincinnati & Washington. Stamp for circular. f > M7 STOU A G K. rpKAOICAUK storage ut lowest rates , W. M. JL HtlHliiiinn. 1311 Loii\onworth. fibS / 1OLD storage. David Cole , 813-817 lloward. TO11AOE Hranch & Co. , 1211 Howard. ; C28 "iritlltNlTliItlO storage , separate comnart- JL * monts. 815-817 Howard. 257 mUACKAGK storaso , David Cole , 815-817 JL Howard. 257 \\rANTED Ity a bachelor , n lady partner TT for life with some means to help settle a new farm. I am 28 ycais. xvelf1' ' ! ll > 5 Ibs , 5 ft II , black hair , dmk eves. IKo neither tobacco nor liquor. Send photo In llrst loiter. Will ox- ehangeorieturn. A Iroferenccsglven and ro- ijulrod , Addicss box 20 , Medical Lake , Wash. 52S 25 * JLOST. LOST Pocketbook on Lowe nvo. between Fainam and Hamilton. Finder rowaided at 102UUap. avo. _ 4'ifl FOlt SAIiKIIOIIHKSAGONSI3TC. . | jv , k t'jxiji. i | iiiii i1111 niiiiii . 11 111111:1 IUJJ JL' cat rlago almost new , 1 buckboaid new , 1 toad cait , 1 single harness and 1 double buggy or carriage harness. Apply at 2215 Webster street , Omaha. 550. T71OIC SALE A good black horse , well broken JPjoJlm elty. 122STlithst. 30i ( HOUSES $50 nnd up. H. K. Colo. 12Q T711FTEEN span work mules , loin ; tlmo at 7 JL1 per cent Interest. Selby 13 llouid Trade. S02 IDAICTIKS looking for line driving or saddle X horses , would do well to call oi , oreorres- pond with T. J. I'lemlmr , manager W , It Mll- hiid's farm , Callmun , Neb. Ho has for sale some first-class single Olivers , carriage teams , iHi'JL-iii'li ' ! " horxps. at leasonablo prices. 50- T71O1C SALE Fine family carilago Iwrso JL. ' sound and gentle. Inuulic5U Ni,10th.su 253 OKSES Lmlit drivers , bargain. The lute tire has madothomulmap , H. K. Colc.Con- tlnental blook. - -K8 AVANTKW TO 1110NT. \\7"ATSTED f cot tagoot six or seven rooms near or on the car lines. Will bo permanent. Addiess G 31 Ileo. 770 \\7ANTED-To rent 2 to 3 unfurnished T ? teems for housekeeping , spiiil ! family , near business center. Addros ? G 18.llco oflleo. - 701 T WANT moio houses to rQiiti more demand JUImn houses. Parrotto Kontal agenuy. FOll HAIjIO FUJIN1TUKK KTO. " 1J1OIC SALE Furniture of 10 room bouse : JL1 leasiinublu terms. GIFTS' . 201 h st. 510-21' ' Furniture Thest ok of II.O. Llnd- O loth , lately deceased , Jens Monson. ad' inlnlstrat < ir. Craig , Nob. 511-2.Y * IT'OIC .SALE lurniturc. carpet J and imiiso- JL' hold goods of all kinds eVery Tuesday , Thuisday and Saturday immilug at 1111 Far nam st. Cash paid for goods. Oinulia Auction and Storage Co. Henry Ciolghtoii.nuottonuor. * * ft" M i A ijio-o rpllE fuiiious WarrcnKburg white and 1)1 ) no J sand stone will stand In uuy-clnmto.N | tire and frost proof anil Is suitable for nil purposes whore stone Is preferable MKjthor material. I am prepared to furnlih this Mono on 'short no tice In any quantity , rough.sa\U > d pr iln > sspd leudy for use. For further Information address - dross Jacob PIoKel , Wuirciiiibuig ( Quarrlcs.Mo. _ UU Jy8 * T71OIC SALIClieap , a beautiful fawn colored JL1 grey hound , l.iuiulio 724 d. 10th St. , 'corner of Loavonwortli. ' m4 1 Do-In , Victor bloycla ; I Entey 2 manual pedal organ , 11.11\. Allen , olllcu Chicago ,1/iim. CQ. _ 4ft 2ii * TTIOIC SALE-1W ) jilano boxes price fc > . A. _ _ _ _ _ _ I7 > OIC SALK. onoup * 0-lmmo i > wcr stco -L1 bollcrHgood us now , with fittings coiuplntu ; mater , mud-driiui , plunge pumps , and No , 3 ivuowlos ; will sull for uuo-Iiulf original cos. Jeff W. llodforil. _ IMt G OOD soda fountain , In running order , for K-M than half co > t. O. Peterson , 618 S. 13th. TTIOIC SALK Some good wutuliei and dla- -L. ' inoiuU the up. H. F , Musters , room 4 , With- it'll bUK'k. 5i > t _ JVI UHIO'AUT VXlT I XNOUAG K , , _ BEFOICK Duylng H plane exumino tlm new scale Klmball plane. A. Ilosi > cl513 Douglas . F.aELLENIIEOK.Uiachor of tholianjo , lh Hospo , 1513 Uoutflus. 2I'J G PA L , UtoWaimni M. Jloney to lonn ou fornis nnd jlty property. B LJA"Ns T'Uy nnd ( HriT ; [ onnsriTm"M ngo pii per bought. Mcl'qgij' [ Inyesliiiont Co. ( lot ONK Y loiilied nt ) q < vpst rntes , long tlnio"iH Improved I Omnlm real oMntt' , no"oxtrns,1 nodcluv , Globe LoartTft Trust Co. , 307 S 10th _ " _ L _ K0.1 _ _ 'oifirIlN"Gloin : , a o 7 per cent ; no addl- JJtlonnl charges fore < iiiimNslon or attorne's ees. W. H. Mclkle , I-lrst Nat'l bank bldg. u 001 _ _ _ _ " * \I ( JNEY f OO or WWnyson furnUnre.prnnos J.'l horses , houses , etc. J. J. Wilkinson , CIS Paxtonjlk. " ICm _ f. ! > u " " "HATTTIL loans "ai owest rules ; business conllilciitlal 510 PavUni blk , J. 11\. Emlngcr _ WO 0 OMMKIlOfAT < rind gonrral short time pnper lwtiKht ; nlso regulnr llve-yoar loans made * on Improved property. Oco . I'VllliistXc ' T'OM 21H Itamgo bldg. m SECOND mortgage loans. Second mortgages bought. Loans on vacant lots. Keod & Solby , room J3\. Hoard Trade. ( io7 /1HATTKL Hank , nil ) H. ir.th st. will lonn you Wnioney on chattels at lunik rates. Call 410 T IHEUAIj real estate loans made by W. M. J-JIIarrls , room 20 , Krctizer block , opp. 1' . O. KKYSTOM : Mortgage Co. Loans of to $1,000 ; get our rates before borrowing and save money ; loan on horses , furniture or any approved security without publicity ; note * bought , for now loan , renewal ot old and low est rates , call H 203 , Bhccly blk , 15th and lloward sts. Gaj TTHKSTmorteago loans at low rates and no JJ delay. D. V. bholcs Co , , 210 1st Nntl bank. 51X1 GPEK CENT residence loans , $ .1,000 to $10,000. Hulldlng loans at special rates. Tlm Mead Investment Co. , Heo building. & 03 _ MONEY to loan on horses , wagons , mines , household goods , plnno-s orgaiisdlamonds , at lowest rates , Tlm Hist organized loan of fice In tlm city. Make loans fiom 3i ) to 30.1 days , which can be paid In part or whole at any tlmo , thus lowering the pilnclpal and Interest. Cull and see us when you want money. We can assist you promptly and to your advantage without removal of ptenurty or publicity. Money always on hand , No delay In making loans. O. F. ICeed & Co. , 310 S. Wth St. ; over HltiL'hnm & Sons. 5')7 ' T OANS--Money on bund , low rales. Omaha JUitcal Estate & Trust Co. , 2JO S. 17th st. , llco building1 UQj MONEY to loan on nny security for short tlmo nt low rates. Lowest rates on personal property. The Henderson Mortgage Iikvostmcnt Com- paiiy. room 400\. Paxlon block. COS V\7 ANTED First class Inside loans. Lowest Vi rates. Call and see us ! Mutual Invest- inentCo. . 1.104 Farnam. COO BEFOUE negotiating a loan to Improve your real estate get terms from The Odoll Investment Co. , ; M N. Y. Life bldg. , Tims. S. lloyd. representative. 010 EASTERN MONEY- CHEAP Pblladelphla Mortgage and Trust Co. , always ready to loan and pay promptly ; first mortgages wanted Ocorgo . P. Coatos. retiro- scntatlvc , room 7 , Ho.ud Trade. flit E ASTEUN money to loan on city property ; mortgage paporbought. H. It. Iroy.N.Y.LIfo MONEV to loan on loin ; or shoit tlmo ; county warrants bought. Star Lund Sc Loan Co. . IGOO'.t Farnam st. 020 J 28 IT time loans on vacant lots , telby & Olieed , til , board ofjiade. T.aj MONEY t7 > loan in any amount rrom flO to 110,000 for any tlmo from ono to six months. Loans made on household goods , pianos , hnrsea. mules , wagonst houses , leases , etc. , In fact on any available security In any amount ut the lowest possible rates without icmoval I'aymonts'can bo irosdo at any tlmo reducing both prlnolpal and Interest. You pay Interest only for the tlmo you iiM > the money. If you owe a balance on your property 1 will take It up ami carry It for you. Money always on mind. No delay. No pub licity. No removal , i Lowest rates. H. V. Masters , Room 4 Wlthncll block , 15lh and Haruoy.Sts. FC rElfcent money to loan ou real estate so- * J curlty. Loans can bo paid olV In Install ments. Jno. W. llobblns , 20"N. Y. Llfo bldg. fCW /CHATTEL loans , l ID Continental blk. . 15 & V Dougliis ; bublncsscoiitidonllal. M.J. Hall ] ) . ( 037 SHOUTHAXU S ECOND i HAND-qaleraplis , lanimomaml Kemlngtons. John II , Comes Co. Letter Files and ofllcc siocl.U1 ] lV > s. Kamgo bldg. 541 } CIjAIUV'OVANT. MHS. DH. EDDY has returned. Tlm renowned clairvoyant Is tlio seventh daughter of the seventh daughterborn with volland great prophetic gift of second sight. While entranced wlllrovcal to her patrons every hidden mystery In life. Has long boon pronounced In Kurono nnd America the greatest living wonder of tlm present ago. Understands tlm science of tlm "Persian nnd Hindoo magic. " or ancient charm working , and prepares Egyptian talis mans which will overcome your enoinles , removed family troubles , restores lost affections , makes mnrrlago with tlm ono you love no failure , Removes ovll in fluences , bad habits , cures witchery , fits , and all long standlnz and mysterious diseases. Koo $1 , | 2 and $5 ; hours 0 a. in. to 8 p. m. , strict. Send stump for Illustrated circular. Parlors 324 North 15th st. Always at home. _ _ 220 27 * MADAM DKLXIKH. magnetise. Is nckowl- cdged by ull competitors the queen of massage and magnetism. Pallors over 010 S. 13tn. Hours ! ) to8 ; Sundays 10 to3strict. 050Jly7 * n - NANNIE V. WAKUEN , clairvoyant JL/incdlcul and business medium. Female dis eases a specialty. HUN.lOtlist. , rooms 2 and a. 01.1 KUSINKSM Ull . AWOKB. ANTED I'arty torest la established manufaeUirlng bus iness. Money wanted to moot growing de mands of the trade. Investigate this. For particulars address H. L. Hurt , 222 East 2d t > t , , Kansas City , Mo. _ 527 2ii WE want a good man with $2&oo to 1.1,000 to take an Interest In the best paying manu facturing business In ; the west , ft will pay you to Investigate this. Address 11\. L. Hart , 2d and Oak sts. , Kansas City , Mo. 027 3i HOTKL for sale or. rent. Two-story brick ; Is one of tlm best hotels , doing an excellent good business , on one of tlm best corners In tlm city , Addicss Commercial Hotel , HroUuii How. Neb. _ , _ , ; t7l ( 24 CIGAlt store , central location , Invoice about 8.Vlj will take $ .150 , $2 ; > 0 cash. Party going to li'uvn ulty and must sell. This Is n bargain. Co-Opgratlvo Land & Lot Co. , 20.1 N. llith st. 471)23 ) _ D1UJG store , widow lady wishes to soil at onouher late husband's half Interest In good paying ding business. Invoicing about $7,000 , In Lander , Wyo. . ns she wishes to jo cast. Address ill's. J. W. Sullivan , Lander. Wyo. 42 > _ T71OU SALE A stock of drugs , store fixtures X1 and a fine .soda fountain , located In u pros perous county beat in Nebraska. Kvorythlng n of the bust. The town Is a 1C. 1C. division station and the 1C. 1C. shops aio located there. For full particulars call or address H. H. Hen derson , room 4UO , Paxlon blook , Omaha , Neb. Ol-room hotel In Omaha , doing good business , > $4,500 , oloar , and will trade for a'ero prop erty or house and lot. Co-Oporutlvo Land & Lot Co. . 205 N. Kith st. 513-23 _ /1OMM1S8IOM business for sale , fixtures , v horse and wagon , will Invoice to suit pur chaser KIRO to ? JU ) . First-class locution. Ad- diessU3U Hoo. a'll FOIc hi\ljV ; cheap A4rooa first class 22 room hotel well f iirnlshotl tlm only hotel In town a good ehniieo for tlii > i slit man. JacobThiiiu , Coleridge , Neb. 375 24 * irioic SALE-Or i IConfA small hotel In a J cooii railroad townMlolng a KOOI ! business ; Will leiibo tlm bulldlnSaid soil tlm furniture. etc. , atrcasonabloprit'vQ'verytlilng nowgOM ; ( reason for selling. Agiucsj II 22 , llco otllee. _ iryft _ ra 24 * HOTKL for runt Kirnl.slied , near 0\. K. & N , depot , a cJlvlr AfjioInt ; soft , snap for light paity. Add. MllifUMuiiu , rulrbury. Neb. rajH 4CO 2(1 ( * _ _ FOK KENT -or sale A first class creamery in good azrluultiinil dlntrlot. Plenty of cream can bo had. Addres-te ' , ltcnshu\r. Sterling , Neb. iyV- O4a-J30 * _ _ IjlOIC SALE Furnl uro and II x tnu > s of 20 J- looms centrally locutcd , Hiiltablo for hotel or looming. Address 11 SO , lieu olllco , 4ii | 23 * _ " 171O1C8ALK Flrst-olasi steam laundry plant , .1\. best location In Oiuahu , or will soli ft Inter cst to valuubhi nmu. capable of inanau'lng same. Address 11 33 , IJco. 4:13 : Ja * T7IOU SALE-Physlclan doslros to soil his J- ' residence property nnd practice worth from f-VW to JI.OOO pi > r year , In u growing town In Nebraska , good chanuu for a doctor. Address , M. L. Itocdor & Hro. , 403 Paxton bloek , Omaha. 50 21 _ TjlOH HALK Film established cigar and news JL.1 business. Host locution In tlm cltv. Ad- . drmts box O. fiS2 im-ilolllL'ii. jsil rPO K.XOllANfiE-Noiv wholcs.ilo Htook of JL notions and furnishing goods In original packages , no roiuimnt.i or cut goods , to ex change for KOIM ! unencumbered rc.il estate and one-third In tush or good puiier , any umonnt from i.1l < i tof. , lMI. 11 , M. VJiing & Co. , It i'd Cloud , Neb. CWJ-/J \\i II.VTImvo you for 4.1 qtmrleis of Inni ! T T liouHiw ntuf lots , rtl < i nmrtgagos ? May assume. _ _ _ W , J < I'nn ) , , ll J Fnrnnjn. If.Kll \\TK have * natiOO worth of renl oUito : to PT * T cliiuiUK formdso.VhnthnvoyoiltoolTpr western Kv'linnuoI1o.'oliunlni' , Neb. WK-24 Foil I'XOHIOK Hour land In town nnd Nebraska loexclmnao for Omaha or South Omaha vnoant lot.s ; will assume small oncuiu- brance. M , H. Sturgeon , Room 13\. Hoard of Trade. 172 T WANT a stock of merchandise for land J. nnd cash. Goo. 11 , Uowrlng , Stuart , Net ) . 40H2S * ] " OTIn Llneoln. Neb. , for stock merchandise . 'Address Win , Uowenllnk. lllckman. Neb. OTtj : > ) rilO TltAHi : Clear pniperty and land to JL trade for stock of general nn'rchandlHO and groceries. 'Address , Ho.xl.M , Thurmim , lowu , nnd oily property for p.ilo or exChange - Change for nny kind of merchandise or chattolf.horsotnndcnltln : would particularly like to trade for steers. Willis Cadwell , Hrokun How , Nub. ' " - T7TOK EXOHANOE-Good fnrms. city nrepor- JL ty nnd wild binds In Neb. and Iowa for RIKK' Sen'I m'd'so ; property clear , title perfect. Ad- res-t Lock Uox 1X1\. Fremont. Neb. _ IW.ILL trndo a good clear lot In So. Omnhn for ) ) llno : or horse and buggy. Address O 4 Htio olllco. : .1 3ACICKS nonr city , Ilfl03 per acni : 2neres near South-Oniaha , J2.000 nor ncroj 2 liouses on motor and p.ivement. ? IOO cash , balance time. Co-Uporattvo Land Ac Lot Co,20.1 N.liith st 472t : SALIT-Onoof the finest stock ranches In the Illack Mills. Dak , , together will about 2,000 hWid ot high grade sheep nnd 2i bead of American mares ; ranch Is wel watered , 1ms plenty of timber and liny land nnd controls 20,000 acres of range. Located bo- tvecn2 ) main lines of railroad , close to tlm famous. Hot Springs and tin mines ; raru op portunity to ii'iaku a fortune and a line healthy country to live In. Will sell sepa- inlolv ; might take clear property In part WrtghtLasbury , Arlington blk. f.2'-23 * FOIC SALl' Clipleo south front lot , facing Hunscom Park. Olxioo , W..KX ) . Choice build ing site' , cheap. 0\. F. Harrison , Ull N. Y. fdfo 4.17 2o /1IIKAI * Houses 2 houses. 4 rooms each. SOU \J and Charles sis. , ,23 ( ) . $2.1 cush : , bill. J12 per moilth. House , 4 rooms , well , cistern , etc. , nil lot. On 35tll and Patrick ave. . f 1,800 ; J.V ) cash bal. pii oasymonthly payments.ri houses of 7 roomscuoh. 2 full lots with each , only $2M)0 ) ; * .Vcash ) , bal. J10 pur month , 7 percent , and a number of others. Gco. J.Paul , 100 ! ) Farnani Iil0-20 "TjlOIC SALE Laigo brick waiclious > o , f,8x32 ! , 4 JU stories. Also bargains In choice icsldcncu property. Inquire room 53 , Chamber of Com- meice. 40J 30 T71O1C SALE-Lot 00x12.1\. 11 lilsldo No. 1\. near J. Vutc.s' residence , south front ; If sold at , once. i-MOO. Fine lesldcncc , 20th nnd Farnani sttocts ; modem Improvements ; 112,000. G. L. Green , ro m If , Ilrrker block. fvM F OH SA Li : House and lot , Patrick's 2nd , 1,500 ; $700 cash , balance In four years. O. F. Harilson , Oil. N. Y. Llfo. 50 ! 23 F OK SALE Or trade at a bargain , ( l-rooin bouse near ball ground. Cull on Wood- bridge llros. , 1412 Uapltol avo. 41ll 2fi "VTEW 8-rooni house , near'motor line ; wil [ -i-i sell cheap and on small monthly pavments. Call ijulck If you want a bargain. J. J. Wllkln- son.illa Pa.\ton blk. 120 L1NCOLN Place ami Ourtlnigo lots , price $1,000 , f.V ) ilown , balance JI.1 monthly. W. L. Selby , room 13\. board of trade. 017 "TJIOK SALE A home on monthly payments. JU A nlcoS-rooin house , $2.1 Jicr month , f > .OJO , first payment as arranged. A pretty cottage , 5 rooms finished , upstairs for as many more , lot 50x120 , ft..OW , 1\. . per month , small payment down. A similar cottage , lot lOOxbO , J > ,200 , J1S per month. Will build on vacant lots to suit. Norman A. ICulm , druggist , 15lh and Douglas. Kit JIM 1J10H SALE Lot 11 , Arlington. $1.3.10 ; flWO JL1 cash , balance In 5 years. C. F. Harrison , 911\. N. Y. Life. it 23 _ rpATCK Notice Wo have the nicest 132x132 L south and cast front ou Farnani , cast of USth st. We have OTi\272 In Glso's addition , Just west of 21th , fronting two streets ; trade , Wo have WixHUonS. K. Cor. 15th and Jones , for sale or lease. Wo have 100x128 S. and T. front on Spauldlng street , paved , for $2.000. The above is ull Kilt edco property and can bo bought right. Sou M. A. Upton Co , , solo agents. _ 410 23 . fine now 5-room cottage near iilcctrlo car line ou N.27th st. Will take as part of cash payment a good horse or horse and DhaotOn. P. 1504 Farnam st. 500 COTTAGE homes fn most any addition for sale ut f rom $1,000 up , on easy monthly pay ments. F. K. Darling. 43 Barker bloek. lilif A SMALL payment down and fl5 per month will buy a4-room house and lot on 10th , 2 blocks from motor ; first-class ehnnoe to ae- qulio a home on easy terms. Apply to H. K. Cole. Continental bloek. 5C.1 5-HOOM cottages , $1,500 each. $100 cash down , balance 415 per month. Tims. F. Hall. 311 Paxton block. 581 ANTED-About 100x100 ft or more , close , inside ; part trndo. cash and time or cash and time. It 1 , llco olllco. 173-30 "INTAKE UP and buy a homo on monthly pay- iV inputs. Cholcoof seven different houses , houth fronts on Farnam st , Every convenience , including fuinaco and gas. I'lr.ns can bo seen at my olllco. Call In. D. V. Sholos Co. , 213 1st National bank. 835 A CHEAP ranch $2.7.1 an aero buys a05.1- acio ranch In southwestern Kansas , good soil , running water , timber , stonehouses , ( i miles fence , clour encumbrance , title good. Ploico & Taylor , Klulillold. Kan. CC5 20 * T71OH SALE or Tnulo My residence on So. - - aitn st. , near rarit scnooi , nouse 01 seven rooms with bath room , water closet , hot and cold water , all In good repair ; will sell foroash very cheap or will take vacant lot on West Farnam st. ns part payment. For particulars address E20Ioo ! oflleo. 013 T1OR SALE Nice 7 room house ready to move into with full lot , S-.SOO , J20J cash. O. F. Harrison. 1)11 ) N. Y. Llfo. 133 \\rAUGH & Wcstcrflold.roal estate , S.Omaha. VV . 010 f'F YOU hnvif anything to sell or exchange , Lcall at 018 Paxton blook. 813 M1AICEN UP Hay maro. llttlo stllf , some Ju wtru cuts , 15 hands high , 7 miles west of Omaha. John MoAidle's farm. J2-9-16-2.1-30 rvotioo. JA11 porsohs Indebted to tlm Nebraska Steam Lnunilry for work done prior to Juno 10th , IhUO , HID hereby directed to make payments at the laundry to E. D. lluostls , who Is author ized to receive all : > uuh monies duo and give , receipt therefore. NEM.tK POOH , Exoutrlx ottlm citato of C. S. Poor , deceased Not lee to Contractors. South Ofiialm , Nob. , Juno 17th , 1ROO. Sealed tiropos.ils will bo received by tlm un- dm'dlgimd ut.thlsoflluo until twelve (12) ( ) o'clock noon. July 1st. 18.90L for furnishing all the ma terials and doing nil the work necessary to grade IIUO.OOO cubic yards of earth moio or less at thp Union Stock Yaids , South Omaha , Nell. Planynnd specifications may be seen and all Information relative to the work obtained at thlsofllt'oV No proposals will bo considered unless ac companied by acnrtlllud check for $1,000 , to bo retained on all bids not accepted. The right Is reserved to rojoot any or all bids. \\YN. IlAliCoCK. Gunoral Manager , Union StbCk Yuids Co , , ( Ltmltod. ) JunoJ71dJU. f , * Nqtloo to Contraotor.s. South Omaha , Neb , , June 17th , Ift'.tt. ' Scnlod nroposals will bo roculvad by the un- cMlanod'at this ( illlco until twelve (12) ( ) o'clock ntioti , June : iOth , I8'JO. ' for furnishing all the ma- uirlal and dolnu' all tlm work necessary to build and complete a plht box storm water , u\vor nnjM-oMiiiHttsly .10J ft long at tlm Union jtoek \ ards , fiuiltli Omaha , Neb , Plans and speclllcatlons and all Information relative to : fm work can bo obtained at this oflleo. No proposals will bo considered unless ac companied by a eertllled check for i.Vj , to be returned on ull bids not accepted. The rluht U uiservpd to reject any or nil bids.V. . N.JJAticnuK. Goneial Manager. Union tjtQck YaidiCo , , iLlmltud. ) Juno 17 dint. ' Notion' ) ! DIsHOlntlon o i' To Whom It may Concern f Tlm eo-paitnor- hld Imrcloforo existing lietwcun W. ( i , Al- irhibt and A. H.Cooley , underthu linn name of W. G. AlbrlgUt& Co. , has this day been dis solved by mutual vonsont , and balit firm have rctticd fiom business. All unsettled matters of the firm have been dueed In the bands nf Mr. Aithur I lust , room i21 N. Y. Llfo Ins. llldg. . who Is authorized to nako all collections and adjust all suttle- imntH. Mr. \ \ . G. Albright can bo found nt thooflluo if tlm Albright Land Hud Lot Co. , looms 521 , K.,1 und 52:1 : N , Y. Llfo Ins , Illdg. Mr. A , H. Cooley can 1m found at tlm oflleo if Davvhiin lirluk Co , 218South l.llh Ml. Juno21 , isoo. W ( ' . Ai.niumiT , Juno22d7t A. II. Cooi.KV. FOR SALE' JOS.R MEQEATH , TIIK UI-VVtiTI TNHTKt'MENTd placed ou record diitliijif JL yosterdav : l.t O'Donnhocrt nlloJIj Miles , lot H , Alliance Mttare | , wd i 0,910 11 K Doyln and huihand loj KSnrp , und Uofv H lotH blk.Tx ) . Oniiiluni e d. . . . 1,803 J KSarp to Mattlo Martin , w ' , lot G , blk IWi. Omaha , wd. . . . . . . , 4,000 Albright land and lot company to Emllo Woyormun. lot 2 , blk X Albright's Choice , wd . . . ? 4i3 South Omaha land company to O U Walker , n < { lot 10 , blk IS , South Onmlm , w d. , . . , , , 3.10 r W Uray and wife to Kind Carlson , lot 4\. blk A , Oreluhton Heights , w d. 1,000 P W dray and wife lo W 1 ! Moslamler , lot ID. blkl.Crelghton ) Heights , wd. . . . 1,000 J .1 Malmuuy et alto Isane Karl , lot 1 , blk 2 , Malmney A Mlnuliait'a 1st add to South Omaha , wd , 050 Mnriln Ulchiiidsnn Jr , to A Waterman , su sw 12-10-10\. w U , . , . , > 1,400 J A Cn'lghton et al oxeouterj to E D Meadliiibcr , lot 3\. blk , " . Oniiiha , wd. 18,000 1'eter Hcngtton to EJ ) Kood.lotsMlnnd 12 , blklt , AlbrlghtlRiinneV.wd. . 800 M EvoUnnd wlfoto J II lludersdorf , n > f lotn. blk 7H , South Oniam , ! , Wd 2,600 Albert Head to Haircl Hyurno. aw II- UMi. wd . { f. . . . ! . . . 000 AJ Horfort and wife to .J S Thompson , lot 4 , blk 2 , Andrew & Hcnson's add , n ud . . . . , . . . . . , , . . . . . . . . . 7,1 J O Meredith to W i'liiouiirtIoU3 ! and I ) , blk 1.1'ojm I'lixoo , wd !  2.000 K II Myers and wife to Otto Ilitutuan , lot 15\. blk 10\. Omaha View , w d 0,000 S K Smith and husband to Olof Nelson , pt IntH. hlk3Saundors&lllmcbaUh'-i ! add to Walnut Hill , wd , 2,000 Ilrlggs I'liico Hulldlng association to Oharles AudcrMUi , lot 22 , blk 10 , Ilrlggs I'lace.wd 2.NX ) J ! ' Hoyd , slmrltTj-to Alvlu tiaunders , w Vilotr > , KeyuVsub , docdi.i 7,513 S.I Unwell to.A Mlllnrd. trustee , lot 22 , blk 10 , llanscom I'lace. lots 13 and 13 , blk 15\. Kountzi * & Uuth's add , w d 0,500 EHKowley to Lowe Avenue Terrace Hiilldtng association , lots 1 TOO. blk 7 , lots 1 to ! ! , 10 tot \ > , blkM. lots S to 12 , blk Ilotslto4 ) , blk 10 , I'oppleton I'ark , wd , . . . ' . . , 4(1,500 ( Twouty-otm transfers $110,133 Iliillilliig r crinlt.s. Permits to build \voro issued n < fol lows by the superintendent of bulldimrs yes terday : ( Jlmrlcs Wober. ai1dtlonal | story to dwel ling. 210 South Twenty-ninth street. , J 800 John Hotnanono-aiid-ouc-fourth ! story frame dwelling , Mayno , near rorttctn street v. 2.0CO Hamilton Hmthers. nno-niid-one-foiirth story frame dwelling , Twenty-eighth and lloward streets 1.500 Two permits agrogatlng $13,000 7 OF C'liAIlEXVU Slf'OJtX XX. An Imposing Ceremony lu the HOUHO oT fjimlti. LOXDON , Juno 23\. The house of lords was filled today on the occasion .of the duke ol Clarcnco taking the oath of ofliee and scat as n peer. The ceremonies were very Imposing. Previous to tlm ceremony tlm 'Jord cham berlain brought a message from the queen saying that tlm duke of Clarence should take precedence after the duke of Con- naught , but before the duke of Albany In the houso. The lord " high "excel tlonccr bowed in acknowledge ment of tlm message. Then there entered a procession headed by tlm usher of tlm black rod , followed by the duke of Norfolk its the hereditary earl marshal , Baron Avulmid a.s hereditary lord great chamber lain and Sir Albert W. Woods. Then came the duke of Clarence with his sponsor , the prince of Wales , und the duke of Kdinburg attired iu ducal robes. Advancing to tlm woolsack tlm duke of Clarence and his sponsors bowed to tlm lord high chancel lor and the duke handed to his lordship . tlm patent granting him a peerage. Tlm clerk of tlm liouso read the patent aloud , also tlm writ commanding Clarence's presence among the peers. The duke then took tlm oath of olllco and signed the rolls of tlm house , after which cere mony ho was conducted to tlm bar , where ho bowed thrco times to tlm throne , tlm lord high chancellor acknowledging tlm salute. Ho was next ; conducted to the chair of state and shook hands with tlm chancellor. Then ho withdrew , accompanied by his sponsors. Tlm princess of Wales and her daughters and a number of peeress witnessed the ceremony. MEXICAN JtKl'OItV'fioKlS'fS. Great Kxclteinent In Moxicmi States lUmleriiif ; the lUo Grande. ST. Louis , Mo. , Juno ! & . A special from San Antonio , Tex. , says : Koports which arc absolutely reliable have reached San Antonio of seditious and revolutionary movements going on in the states of Mexico bordering ou tlm Hlo Grande , and itseems the utmost folly for tlm papers , however friendly to Mexico and the Diaz administration , to longer suppress tlm news. This movement Is not confined to any locality , but is undoubtedly widespread as far as tlm border states are concerned. Constable Mntincz of tlm state of Mucvo Leon describes a threatening condition of government affairs observed all along his voute up the Hio Grande to Saltillo. Ho says that at nearly every station and side track along the Mexican 'National railroad ho siw crowds of men congregated and excitedly discussing the advisability of Joining a ro- bollinn nirninst the federal trovcinmcnt. When ho left Laredo this morning a courier had Just arrived bearing information of a band of flfty men , well organized and armed , who had crossed tlm Hio Grande from tlm Texas side en route to some point In the interior of Nuovo Leon , where the revolu tionary forces nro massing iu largo numbers to ilrit march on to Saltillo , the capital of that state , and rout a contingent of the DhM army stationed there to suppress mu tinies. All the telegraph lines in Mexico nro under- the rigid control of tlm federal government and it is practically impossible to got any direct information. Tlm cause of tlm trouble is the strong ecu- , trallzlng tendencies of the DIuz government. North American Turnci'lHiiul. Ni\v : Yoitic , Juno' ' : ! . Tlm North American turnorbund held three sessions today. Tlm Milwaukee Turn Xeitung was chosen as the official organ. The Turners' Mutual Uenellt association of tlm northwest rpu.uc.sted tlm support of the turnorbund. 1 ( oferred to the committee ou organization , Thcro was a long discussion on the proposition to establish u teachers' seminary In Milwaukee and consoli date with it tlm ( jurmnn-AuiQrlrnii Institute of Indianapolis. The latter has been hereto fore a perambulating Institution from city to city. Milwaukee , however , was finally chosen us the seat of the national institute. Secrcst Will Kooover. CD L. O. Set-rest , tljo man who fell from the window at the Merchants' hotel , Is now Im proving rapidly , nml lib physicians state that lie will recover. At 2 o'clock this morning ho was resting well , his condition having im proved very materially during the past twenty four hours. < - lteooitlon ] to American Kiflumcn. HAMHUHO , Juno 3U. Twenty-live Hamburg riflemen mot the Americans at Wlshind ou ; helr arrival from Now York today. Thcro was an elaborate reception. ol' 1'ythiiiH liluiiniil Conulavo , ut Milwaukee , \\H. | , July , 1HDO. For tills grout ocuiiHlou oxcui-stoii tiok- otn will bo hold from till principal point ! ; In the United Stlitos and Canndii to Mll- wnuUeo und rolurn via the Chicago , Mllwiiukou & St. Paul railway at half atus. AH Ha naino Indtoalos the Chleapo , Ulhvaulcou ( S * at. I'aul railway Is the diruct route to Milwaukee , and an tlio camp ground for tlio Uniformed Knights to which point oars and truliiH will ho tin through without transfer ) In luciitud llrcctly on tlilh line , It will bo neon that the Chicago , Milwaukee fc St , I'aul rail- vay lias grout advantage ever other OUIOH which are uimhlo to furnish mich uoilitluH , and visiting Knights , their amilios and friends should hear thin n mind whou purchasing excursion ickots. A circular giving detailed Information vill bo mailed free upon application to V. V. II. Carnontor , gunoral pubsongor igont , Milwaukee , \Vla. J. K. 1-llKSTON , P. A. NAbll , Puns. Agout. ( Jon'l Agont. 15D1 Farnam Htroot ( Uarkur Hlouk ) , Omahu. BRADSIIAW'S ' PLEA FOR AID. It Will Bo Libanlly Responded" to B/ Omaha's Generous Oitizons. ACTION AT LAST NIGHT'S ' MASS MEETING , An Organized KfCort to Ho tMntlo t Hellovo tlio HufTerliiKs ( if tlm Victims oi'thn llccent Cyclone. The meeting called for lust night nt tha bonnl of trade room tiki not roull/o the ex pectations of those who issued the call , us tlm nttondnnrovns very slight. Mr. II. T. Clttrko was made chairman , and the meeting resolved tt.sclf Into an Informal body nnd discussed the situation. Messrs. Clarke , Huchaiiun , 1'errlno , Savldge , Diet * , Nnson and Hloomer , of those \v ! > o wont to Bradshnw , were present and related such Ue- talls of the situation as had couio under .their personal observation. The prevailing Idea was that Immediate netlou In affording- relief was necessary and the best way to make tlm relief enicaelOus was freely discussed , Mr. NIISOII suggested that It would bo n peed Idea to have a list prepared of these who were destitute and also of ttm article * most neeiled , so that an Idea might be formed of what was needed. Mr. Clarke said he had observed that thcro was tui entire lack of system In the dlstrllm- button of supplies which had already twen sent to Uradslmw , and suggested that HOIIUI system should be adopted so that these \Vho wow In the greatest need should receive at tention first. Other citizens having come in , the mccliiiR was called to order and Mr. liuclmnmt ad dressed the meeting , stating what the committee had seen at Diiul- shaw. In the residence portion of the town thorn were no buildings loft standing , and In the entire town not a single building was in such shape as to bo lit for oc cupancy. The people were entirely destitute and had very little money. Their goods were scattered far and near , and what , little money the people had was being used very econom ically to assist these who most needed It. Tlm town itself would have to bo entirely rebuilt. The Congregational church had been lifted from Us place and scattered all about , nothing being left except the lloor. The Methodist church was In the same shape. Tlm school house , which had Just been com pleted , was blown entirely down. This had just biou erected , and the school district bonded to the full limit of the law , so tlm't it would bo impossible to creel another without outside help. A very careful estimate , Mr. Buclmmm said , placed the amount of destruction nt about 75 or W percent ol the possessions ot the people. The lumber nf which the buildings had been constructed hud been splintered and twisted so that It was Impossible to use It again. What the people needed , ho said , wan household goods of all de ; > cripttons , tinware , clothing , and so on indefinitely Kev. Charles Bavldgo related several Inci dents which showed tlm loreo of the storm. Horses had their legs twisted olT. earriagu wheels had the hubs nnd spokes twisted out , etc. Mr. Savutgo said the people needed boots and shoes , crockery and food. The railroads , lie said , had agreed to transport all goods free of charge. Mr. Diet. ! said that lumber was very cheap now and several carloads might bo sent out with some cnrponters , who could erect n f nv houses to relieve the immediate needs of the people. On motion of Mr. Buchanan an oxecutlvo committee , consisting of II. T. Clarke , Her man Kountzc , A. P. Hopkins , II. Dolln and T. II. McCii uo , w.us appointed to have charge of money which might bo raised and til.so have authority to secure , by purchase or otherwise , suehs aiticlo and in such quanti ties as the needs of the Uraduhaw people de manded , and to piocure lumber for building. A soliciting committee , consisting ot the representatives of the various trades , was ap pointed to solicit contributions and turn them over to the executive committee. The chair appointed on this committee M. A. Up- ton , . ] . B. Kvans , C. N. DieU , Charles \V. Morton , Richard Smith , Charles . Savidge , .1\. O. Phillippi , J. A. Wakelleld , M. I , . UooderJ 1C. Puulsun , .John Buumer , S. P. Morse , J. A. Fuller , Charles Ilayward , l'I I ) . Woodmw. This committee will moot at the board of trade room ut 12 o'clock today. E. H. Sothcrn played "Lord Chumloy" at Boyd's ' opera house last night to a very Him audience , and his performance was greatly enjoyed by every ono. On taking Into con sideration the fact that this Is a most unsea sonable time of year for indoor amusements , Mr. Sothern should feel complimented to know that tlm fashionable theater-Keel's willingly endured a disagreeable atmosphere for the enjoyment of such line entertain ment as ho aflords them. Tlm audience last night was strong proof of tlm favorable 1m- lie iniiilu In Onmlm imnn lita fliHif visit , about one year ago. Inasmuch as Mr. Sotlmrn's exceedingly clever and delicately artistic impersonation of n very peculiar , strangely constructed character was somewhat - what elaborated on at that time , no more need bo said now further than that his re ception was an enthusiastic and hearty ono. Ho is supported by a well organized com pany , consequently every part of tlm play moved along in a smooth and satisfactory manner. Mr. Sothorn had written to friends hero that they were badly worn out from heat and travel , and therefore could not promise tlm ix-oplo of Omaha much of a treat , but it was the generally expressed opinion that ho played more earnestly ami was stronger In some of his scenes than before. Will Not Shorten tlio Hussion. LONDON , Juno lilt. There Is a consensus of opinion that tlm government's now Jlcenso scheme will not shorten the session of parlia ment. It is undeniable that the entire bill would have been dropped but for Oosclmn and Hichle , both of whom threatened to re sign If the bill was withdrawn. Cairn1 , mem ber for Barrow-m-Purness , with u view to te.stlng tlm feeling of his electorate on the subject , resigned his seat tonight and will seek re-election on tlm untl-gompuusatlou programme. At u meeting of temperance lenders tonight n manifesto was adopted declaring that the ovornment's scheme Is worse than worth less. The party will continue Us all caucus opposition to tlm measure. Knocked Down AVIth u Hilly. John Matthews came down from I.u Mont , Intending to go to work for Walker & Co , , but before ho had been in the city an hour , Im got Into trouble. At U : ! U ) last night ho was drinking In Fred Hanclker's saloon , ou fourteenth street , when tlm bartender knocked him down with n billy , after which , lie was taken to tlm station and placed In the lospltal ward. Tlio saloonkeeper w.w ar rested on tlm chargoof assaulting with Intent to wound. The Apollo ( lull llaiuiiiot. The Apollo club tendered II , p. Young , the director , a banquet at tlm Mlllard last night. About twenty-live of the club men were irusent and the llmu wits passed In wlngliiK mil discussing the plcnllful supply of good tilings with which the banquet tahlo woa pro vided. Jumped tlio 'J'rnok. KKADINO , Pa. , Juno S3\. The locomotive , > aggugo car mid passenger car of a south- iound passenger train on tlm Philadelphia & teinling railroad Jnmpud the track this morn- ng about live miles from this city. Louis Vckley , engineer , was klllod , and his brother. ho jlruimm , probably fatally Injured. Sovorul other trainmen were Injured , but no pusscu * gent were hurt. a i i llclglim Opinion on ( silver. LONDON , Juno ! l.-M. do Luvelo , a llolfjlrui Killilcul economist , writes that cither of the \morl can sliver bills will Injuie the cause ot he national bl-metalllsU , liut neither can losslbly Injure America , Of the two ho con- , sldora the fico coinage bill tlm least harmful. Ili'iu.iv , Juno ! ) , Hohob , minister of fl imnco , has resigned , Ho will bo succeeded by Miguel , mayor of KrunlcfoiVmd leader ol the national llboruls. . '

THE OMAHA DAILY BEE TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1871 SPECIAL NOTICES, OMAHA. Advertising will be taken for these columns until 8:00 p.m. for the evening edition and until 8:00 a.m. for the morning edition and SUNDAY BEE. Rates will be for at the rate of 1.5 cents per word for the first insertion and 1 cent per word for each subsequent insertion, and 50 cents per word per month. No advertisement taken for less than 1 cent per word for the first insertion. FIGURES, symbols, etc., count as full words. Advertisements must run consecutively and under no circumstances will they be taken or discontinued by telephone. For advertising in these columns and having their answers addressed to a "Business Editor" in care of The BEE, will receive an unsolicited cheek in cable them to get their letters. Answers will be delivered only on prepayment. Knowledge answers in properly addressed. ADVERTISEMENTS under the head of "Special Notices" are published in both the morning and evening editions of THE BEE, the circulation of which aggregates more than 30,000 papers daily, and gives the advertiser the benefit not only of the large circulation of The BEE in Omaha, but also in Council Bluffs, Lincoln and other cities and towns in the west. SUNDAY BEE rates are half rates during the months of July and August. The regular rates will be charged for each additional word above 21 words as well as for consecutive insertions. BRANCH OFFICES. Advertising for the columns will be taken on the above editions, at the following business houses who are authorized to take special notices, at the same rates as can be had at the main office. OFFICES. Hayings Bank Building, 26th and N Streets, Nebraska. Kramer & Co., Pharmacists, 820 South 10th Street. Kramer & Co., Stationers and Printers, 220 South 10th Street. Brittianworth, Pharmacist, 2115 Cumming Street. V. T. Homers, Pharmacists, 612 North 10th Street. E. Park, Pharmacist, 1718 Leavenworth Street. Clark Pharmacy, 24th and Farnam. SITUATIONS WANTED. SITUATION by one first-class lead and cake baker and second hand. Hire at Krug's Hall, 1020 10th Street. POSITION in wholesale or retail home as salesman or assistant bookkeeper. Have long experience in retail business as buyer and salesman. Can give references or security for responsible position. Address The BEE, 418-23. STENOGRAPHER (gentleman, 2 years experience, business references, 52 Bee, or Telephone 1-13. WANTED POSITION in store or office by bright, intelligent boy of thirteen who is not afraid of work. Address The BEE, 402-23. WANTED COACHMAN. Non-nominated apply without best of city references. 553. WANTED A good engineer who can run an engine, is a good hand with carpenter tools, is willing to work at anything and make himself generally useful about a ranch; state age and experience. Address The Stanton Breedling Farm Co., Mounds, Neb. WANTED A first-class coatmaker at once; steady work. Opera House Tailors, 40-J. WANTED An active man for each section on salary from $10 to $100, to locally represent a progressive N.Y. company, Incorporated, to supply dry goods, clothing, shoes, jewelry, etc., to consumers at cost. Also a lady of factsalary from $10, to enroll members ($50,000 now enrolled, $100,000 paid in.) Inferences exchanged, Empyrean Co-Openfield association tried well rated stock. Box 10, N.Y. WANTED at once, 3 or 4 ordinary brush bands. M.U. Edwards, Oglala, Neb. WANTED Four men 21 to 40 yrs. old, fair education and good address, for Nebraska J.M. Klein & Co., for Paxton blk., Omaha. WANTED, 18 now specialties, all must sellers; no experience necessary; big money; sample free. Address E.C. Browning, Holy, Midi. Salesmen on salary or commission to handle our new Patent Chemical Ink: Erasing Pencil. The greatest selling novelty ever produced. Erases Ink thoroughly in two seconds; no abrasion of paper, 200 to 500 percent profit. One agent's sales amounted to $35 in six days; another $125 in two hours. We want one energetic general agent for each state and territory. Sample by mail 35 cents. For further information and full particulars, address The Monroe Eraser Mfg. Co., La Crosse, Wis. AGENTS WANTED-Competent men can now make valuable contracts for general and special agencies in Nebraska, Iowa, and Minnesota with no usual disadvantages and commission of Minneapolis, Minn., one of the oldest associations in the field and well established. Parties desiring remunerative positions should give this prompt attention, as these openings will soon be filled and such vacancies will not occur again for years. We furnish our agents valuable assistance in their work. Know what to do and do it. For further information, descriptive circulars, etc., address H.E. Fairchild, Secretary, Minneapolis, Minn. 508-27. WANTED-Boy about 11 years old to learn jewelry trade, Swede preferred, 402 15th St. 602-21. WANTED Two men to travel, must be willing to start on small salary. Address Lock Box 4, Columbus, Neb. 561-24. SALESMEN to sell specialties to merchants by sample; salary paid to good men; samples furnished; steady employment; Model Manufacturing Co., South Bend, Ind. 456-30. WANTED A salesman to carry line of teas and cigars on commission through Southern Iowa. Attractive inducements offered; also man to work Omaha city trade. Address George A. Kennedy, St. Joseph, Mo. WANTED HEAVY laborers for extra road gangs. Apply to H.B. Johnson, H. & M. passenger depot, Omaha. 468 WANTED Architectural draftsman. Hodgeson, jr., 515 Browne Block, 10th and Broadway. 480 WANTED cook; state experience, whether graduated, whether Democrat or Republican; give references; regular only. Address The BEE, Omaha, 412-22. MECHANICS wanted at Norfolk and Lincoln. Good wages paid. M.T. Murphy. 459 A boy wanted as a foreman or assistant for general or special assignments. Apply to V. L. Avery, 777 Water St., Omaha, Neb. WANTED Men to travel for our Canadian nurseries, St. Louis, Mo. 757 Write for full particulars and sample cases of goods free, write at once for full particulars and samples of goods free, write, immediate Silverware Co., Husted, Mass. WANTED energetic men and women for an excellent business, weekly profit much higher than fee monthly other businesses; experience necessary; permanent position and exclusive territory; sample free; immediate money-making business. Address with stamp. Murrill Manufacturing Co., It. KJ, Chicago, Ill. Whyia. 456-30\. O, Moses, a good hand for housework, excellent experience in doing housework for several families; call at 411 North St. and Bloomingdale Ave. Wanted – A capable girl to do general housework for a small family; good wages. Call at 411 North St. Wanted – A girl to do cooking and laundry for a small family, living at 411 North St. An experienced cook and laundress is needed for a small family, living at 411 North St. The position offers an annual salary of $10,000\. Wanted – A girl for dining and chamber work. Call at 1002 S 19th St., one block south of the courthouse. Wanted – Two girls for general housework in a family living at 1912 E 11th St. Wanted – A second girl for a family living at 2221 Howard St. Mrs. Francis Keller. Wanted – A girl for room and board; call at 1002 W, corner of 24th St. and St. Mary's Ave. Wanted – Two ladies and one boy to receive instructions and study books in July. H. Smith, New York Mfg. Building. Wanted – A good girl for housework, living at 1325 S 11th St. Wanted – A girl to stitch on ladies' shoes; those having experience with power machines preferred. W. V. Morse & Co. Wanted – 1st and 2nd girls in a private family; best of wages paid. 721 H 10th St., corner of Leavenworth St. Mrs. J. L. Findlay, 177\. Three experienced tuning room girls at the Lincoln Hotel. Dressmaking. Mrs. E. L. Hanson, 1007 S 10th St. Available for doing dressmaking, the Taylor system taught. Enlarge Your Income by doing day or night sewing; work in families solicited. Miss Study, 1825 S 25th Ave. Houses for Rent. House for rent furnished or unfurnished, located at 908 I Street; A Wilkinson, 408 Paxton Building. Furnished house for rent, 7 rooms from July 1 to October 1, near Holmes Park, located at 5th St. 8th Ave. Rent apartments in all parts of the city; list too large to publish, Atlantic Loan & Trust Company, 717 S 10th St. For Rent – Elegant apartment on Georgia Ave., S 20th St. between Mason and Pacific Sts., suitable for long-term lease. H. H. Henderson, room 400, Paxton Building. For Rent Furnished for the summer, a 7-room house, all improvements, 1 block from motor. Call or address K. U. McDougle, 3236 Georgia Ave. For Rent – 2 fine pressed brick houses, with gas and electric lights, on Georgia Ave., just north of Levensworth St.; 6 rooms, bath, furnace, and sewer connections, all conveniences; will rent to responsible parties for $50\. M. A. Upton Co., 740 E 11th St. and Parnam's. For Rent – House, 10 rooms, all modern improvements; high-yield, winter month. Commission to agents. Dexter L. Thomas, 507 E 18th St. If you wish to sublet a house or store, see H. Cole, Continental Building. For Rent Two of the finest residence flats on Holmei St., with all modern conveniences, hot and cold water, close to Brownell Hall. First-class surroundings. Apply to Colin Kaufmann, 1322 Douglas St. Rent – House, 5 rooms, water, sewer, at 2142 22nd St.; 3 rooms and 8 North St.; at $20\. 31-room cottage, $20\. H. Yulby, Board of Trade. For Rent Good 10-room house, sewer, water, gas, bath, barn, furnace; in excellent condition, cheap. D. V. Shields Co., 213 First National Bank Building. Ready for yearly tenants, from June 1, the beautiful new brick 8-room modern houses on Lake Street. Take 10th St. motor. For Rent 12-room brick house, with all modern improvements. 1137 S. 11th St. Cheap. Also a 4-room cottage on N. 17th St. Judge Anderson. Good boarding house for rent very cheap in both locations. 1604 S. 10th St. For Rent – Dwelling, 6 rooms, stable, and all requirements for a first-class home; south front; 2508 Capitol Ave.; rental very low. Introduce at 2142 Farnam St. For Rent – Flat with steam heat, 10th St. near Jones. Thomas F. Hull, 311 Paxton Building. For Rent 10-room brick house, with modern conveniences, No. 811 S. 20th St. Apply at No. 827 S. 20th St. For Rent Farmhouse with barn; nominal rent to good party. O. F. Harrison, 101 N. V. Life. For Rent 10-room house, 2107 Douglas St. Introduce 2111 | Douglas St. Fine residences, modern improvements, 2108 St. Mary's Ave., $61 per month. Introduce at premises or at A. Holler's. 1114 Farnam St. For Rent 7-room dwelling with yard, 1212 Also, 8-room dwelling with yard, $30\. 10-room dwellings, $41 to $55\. Smeaton & Allen, 1900 Furnam St. Houses for Rent – 22nd and Hartwood. For prices, contact Paul, 1009 Furnam St. For Rent About June 7, 6-room house on 33rd St. and Clanging Sts., $15 per month. C. F. Thompson, 101 N. Y. Life. For Rent Very nice 6-room house for rent on 7th Ave., $22\. Apply to 1008 S. 7th Ave. or to Jno. W. Hell, druggist, 10th St. For Rent – Rooms for housekeeping; nice yard; near car lines. 310 N. 22nd St. Rooms for housekeeping, 113 S. 11th St. Rooms – To rent 2121 Dodge St., for gentlemen only. Private boarders; modern conveniences. 487-J. Room for rent, furnished, with board. 1814 Dodge St. Rooms for rent, furnished or unfurnished, 1002 W, corner of 24th St. and St. Mary's Ave. Rooms for rent – South room, with board. 1822 Chicago St. For Rent – All new and tastefully furnished rooms at 1825 15th St. 128-27 N. Nicely furnished rooms, 2121 Farnam St. For Rent Furnished or unfurnished, 1004 Capitol Ave.; a south second-story room and alcove with board, suitable for two young men or gentleman and wife. Refrigerators, newly painted, 618-23 For Rent – Cool, pleasant furnished rooms, 1814 Lansdowne St. Rooms for housekeeping to man and wife; no children, rent taken in board. 310 N. 17th St. Rooms, with board if desired, 1008 Capitol St. 232 27 * OOOL. pleasant rooms. IJKUi N. IStll, Hat "J", with clubs board, for gentleman, 375-J 2.1 * FOR RENT Two furnished front rooms, with bay-window, modern conveniences, and $4 per month, with or without board. 2218 leave with pot. 812 "101C RENT-Furnished, rooms, Capitol av - BlTJyl * 17THC RENT-Nevef furnished rooms in New Terrace, with board, at reasonable rate. 128 Howard at. : 10 "101C RENT-Furnished a Studio. 1009 Douglas, ; * 5711 17THC RENT Nicely furnished room, all JL1 modern conveniences, 2 blocks from P. o., pleasantest. 077 17THC RENT-A large and nicely furnished room fronting on Capitol avenue, east of the high school. Private family. Suitable for two or three gentlemen. Address U, 51, Heo. U33- "TTIOK RENT Furnished rooms; BUS, both and JL' kitchen; 1511) Howard. OT CLAI1C; European hotel, corner 13th and kJDodge. Special rates by week or month. 570 FOR RENT A large front room, furnished, In one of the elegant residences in the city, P.4 S. 11th st. , corner Leavenworth. 811 "FOR RENT STORES AN " FOR RENT -Unfurnished rooms, 20t * N. 13th FOR RENT Corner store, 701 S. 10th t., * < W; - First floor and location on street at the price. Leave-furniture, 7U1 South 12th st. 42620 * FOR SALE Brick warehouse, two floors and basement 27,000 square feet, with 100 feet of double track on I. I., railway, south 18th and Perko streets. Address O. Oskamp, Omaha, Neb. 61'J FORK office at mail figures on ground floor, JL1 In Lloyd's opera HOUSE. Introduces of American Refrigerator Co., 81.1 f. 18th st. 1'M ' "1016 RENT I unfurnished rooms to family JL1 without children; modern improvements 1701 Webster st. Price tl. " > . IN ) basement 31th and Leavenworth v-st, good place for bar or shop. $15 per month. 1IM-3.Y "NEW building, handsomely furnished store, J-i and room; all modern improvements! steam heat; In EMPOWERMENT cor. Leavenworth and 18th sts. Inquire Kolkonsky & Bray, Continental bank, THOUGHT-FINISH-Small store room. . South JJ Tenth, four doors from depot. .Suitable for fruit or cigar store. Apply ticket office, H)7i-16th) 18th. (00\. ( STOCKS at TO! ) . S 6th, 1200 rooms, large allow windows, strain furnished. Theos 1' . Hull. 1111 1'axton blk. Ml FOR RENT This 4-story brick building. With JL' or without power, formerly occupied by the Co. Publishing Co., 010 Parkum st. The building is 4-story "fireproof" commercial basement, complete with steam heating fixtures, water on all the floors, gas, etc. Apply at the office of The Daily News. CLAIRE E. IUKY, rental agent, 200 N. YLETO.YO. TO! ) AUTO rental agency, 127 12th blk. E. COMI rental agent. Continental blk. A SORGIAMSUS. T > AUTIS wanting their lawn cut and taken X care of address or call on John U. Scimllt, 621 N. 27th st. live. 001-Z1 * MAD STONE I have a gentleman mad stone. * Henbow, 125c no. st. KH-Jy * WANTED Ten to twenty-five power engine and boiler. Address 712 N. 28th ave. , 471.a * . . WANTED Houses or stores, clear of incumbrances, in other Nebraska or Iowa towns for incumbents Omaha real estate. Stringer & Penny, Douglas blk, 18th and Jodge. 20J WANTED Good commercial paper. Not - T T Nebraska Mortgage Loan Co., 81) 12th blk. 17HJUN1TUUE, household goods. to. Highest J cash price. 317 S 18th. :17.1 : T OUISSE AVENUE, from Chicago, the famous J masseur and magnetic manipulator. Parlors. : illiN. 18th st. 202-24 * ELECTROGYNOECLIST. Day has fitted up elegant bath rooms, No. 1108 Dodge. the ground floor, and is now prepared to give Hot Springs baths with electricity. All suffering from rheumatism, la grippe, paralysis or dropsy will do well to call upon her. 548Jyli ! MASSAGE and magnetic treatment. 1113 12th, half block from motor line.016-SO 016-SO * MASSAGE treatment, electric, thermal, medicated baths, help & heart treatment, chiropodist. Mrs. K. M. Post. 413 H. 10th. 8ft.y | r > * PHOTOGRAPHY. Anyone going to take a vacation or a trip, If they don't go until they buy one of Boyds amateur photo outfits. 20 styles to select from. Ull Dodge st. gj-i PENSION AGENCY. EN. CLINICMAN, exclusive pension attorney, K 10 & 21, Freeman block, Omaha; also Cincinnati & Washington. Stamp for circular. M7 STORAGE AGENTS. FREIGHT storage at lowest rates, W. M. JL Hattie street. 1311 Leavenworth. fibS GOLD storage. David Cole, 813-817 Howard. TOILLEAGE Branch & Co., 1211 Howard. C28 DRY GOODS storage, separate compartments. 815-817 Howard. 257 BLACKSMITH storage, David Cole, 815-817 Howard. 257 WANTED By a bachelor, a lady partner TT for life with some means to help settle a new farm. I am 28 years, 5 feet 11 inches, black hair, dark eyes, no either tobacco nor liquor. Send photo in first letter. Will exchange or return. A Reference given and required, Address box 20, Medical Lake, Wash. 52S 25 * LOST. LOST Pocketbook on Leavenworth ave. between Farnam and Hamilton. Finder rewarded at 1029U ap. ave. _ 4'ifl FOR SALE FURNITURE AGENTS. JL' cater cargo almost new, 1 hackboard new, 1 single harness and 1 double buggy or carriage harness. Apply at 2215 Webster street, Omaha. 550. FOR SALE A good black horse, well broken JP to city. 1225 13th st. 30i ( HOUSES $50 and up. H. K. Colo. 12Q FOR SALE Fifteen span work mules, from; time at 7 JL1 per cent interest. Selby 13 Howard Trade. S02 HACKS looking for fine driving or saddle X horses, would do well to call on, correspond with T. J. Pender, manager W, It Mill- hind's farm, Callum, Neb. He has for sale some first-class single Olivers, carriage teams, iHi'JL-iii'li ' ! " horses at reasonable prices. 50- FOR SALE Fine family carriage horse JL. ' sound and gentle. Inquire 10th st. 253 GOES Limited drivers, bargain. The late tire has made them unmistakable, H. K. Colo. Continental block. -K8 AVANT to MONT. WANTED f cot tagoot six or seven rooms near or on the car lines. Will be permanent. Address G 31 Heo. 770 WANTED-To rent 2 to 3 unfurnished T ? teams for housekeeping, spacious family, near business center. Address ? G 18\. Ico office. - 701 WANTED More houses to rent more demand JUImn houses. Parrotto Kent agency. FOR SALE FURNITURE ETO. FOR SALE Furniture of 10 room house: JL1 leaseable terms. GIFTS. 201 h st. 510-21' ' FURNITURE The estate of the late H.O. Lind- O to 18th, lately deceased, Jens Monson. administrator Craig, Neb. 511-2.Y * FOR SALE Furniture, carpet, and household JL' goods of all kinds every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday morning at 1111 Farnam st. Cash paid for goods. Omaha Auction and Storage Co. Henry Cioighton, mutton wool. * * ft" M i A i-o-o rpllE serious Warrensburg white and 1)1 ) no J sandstone will stand in any climate, free from frost and is suitable for all purposes where stone is preferable to other material. I am prepared to furnish this Stone on 'short notice In any quantity, rough sawed or dressed ready for use. For further information address - dross Jacob Pickel, Warrensburg ( Quarries, Mo. _ UU Jy8 * FOR SALE Cheap, a beautiful fawn colored JL1 greyhound, Lounsbury 724 d. 10th St., 'corner of Leavenworth. ' m4 1 Do-In, Victor bicycle; I Entry 2 manual pedal organ, 11.11\. Allen, office Chicago,1/iim. CQ. _ 4ft 2ii * FOR SALE-1W ) jigsaw boxes price fc > . A. Good soda fountain, in running order, for sale than half cost. O. Peterson, 618 S. 13th. TIIC sale Some good watches and diamond jewelry, including the up. H. F, Musters, room 4, Witherspoon building, 51 S. 13th. VET IN OMAHA, NO UGHOUTAG, before starting, examine the new scale Kilmer plane. A. Hostetler, 513 Douglas St. 21 GOLD PAL, Omaha's leading watch and jewelry store. J. Honey to form our own and property. BLJ's, Try and Griffith; [consignment] store, 902 Perkins, bought. McElgion's [inspection] Co. (lot ONLY fortified at) quick rates, long term improvements, unclaimed real estate, no extra, model shop, Globe Luray Trust Co., 307 S 10th ORGANIZING goals, a 7 percent; no additional charges for consultation or attorney's fees. W. H. McKee, First Nat'l bank building. MONEY to loan for horses, houses, etc. J. J. Wilkinson, 616 Paxton St. HATTIE loans at lowest rules; business constitutional $10 Pavilion blk, J. H. Eminger COMMERCIAL and general short term paper; also regular five-year loans made ON SECOND mortgages, loans bought, loans on vacant lots. Reed & Solby, room 3, Board of Trade. THE REAL bank, will loan you money on chattels at bank rates. Call 410 TlHEURNAL real estate loans made by W. M. Harrls, room 20, Fettzer block, opposite P. O. CUSTOM: Mortgage Co. Loans from $1,000; get our rates before borrowing and save money; loan on horses, furniture, or any approved security without publicity; notes bought, for new loan, renewal of old and low interest rates, call H 203, Beechly blk, 15th and Howard sts. MORTGAGE loans at low rates and no delay. D. V. Scholes Co., 210 1st Nat'l bank. EQUAL CENT loans, $1,000 to $10,000\. Building loans at special rates. The Mead Investment Co., Bee building. MONEY to loan on horses, wagons, mines, household goods, pianos, organ, diamonds, at lowest rates, The First organized loan office in the city. Make loans from 30 to 30.1 days, which can be paid in part or whole at any time, thus lowering the principal and interest. Call and see us when you want money. We can assist you promptly and to your advantage without removal of property or publicity. Money always on hand, no delay in making loans. O. F. Reed & Co., 310 S. 18th St.; over Bittinger & Sons. LOANS--Money on bond, low rates. Omaha Legal Estate & Trust Co., 230 S. 17th st., Bee building. MONEY to loan on any security for short time at low rates. Lowest rates on personal property. The Henderson Mortgage Investment Co., room 400, Paxton block. WANTED: First-class inside loans. Lowest rates. Call and see us! Mutual Investment Co., 104 Farnam St. BEFORE negotiating a loan to improve your real estate, get terms from The Odell Investment Co.,; M N. Y. Life bldg., Times S. Lloyd, representative. EASTERN MONEY--CHEAP Philadelphia Mortgage and Trust Co., always ready to loan and pay promptly; first mortgages wanted. George P. Coates, representative, room 7, Board of Trade. EASTERN money to loan on city property; mortgage paper bought. H. R. Troy, N.Y. Life MONEY to loan on loan; or short time; county warrants bought. Star Land & Loan Co., 1005 Farnam St. TIME loans on vacant lots, tell by & Reed, board of trade. MONEY to loan in any amount from $100 to $10,000 for any time from one to six months. Loans made on household goods, pianos, horses, mules, wagons, houses, leases, etc., in fact on any available security in any amount at the lowest possible rates without removal of property can be done at any time reducing both principal and interest. You pay interest only for the time you have the money. If you owe a balance on your property we will take it up and carry it for you. Money always on hand. No delay. No publicity. No removal, lowest rates. H. V. Masters, Room 4 Witherspoon block, 15th and Harney Sts. EXCELLENT money to loan on real estate security. Loans can be paid off in installments. John W. Robbins, 20 N. Y. Life bldg. CHATTLE loans, ID Continental blk., 15 & Douglas; business constitutional. M.J. Hall SOUTH DAKOTA SECOND HAND-generators, lath, Remingtons. John H. Coles Co. Letter Files and office soclal.1 s. Ramgo bldg. MISS. DR. EDDY has returned. The renowned clairvoyant is the seventh daughter of the seventh daughter born with a great prophetic gift of second sight. While entranced will reveal to her patrons every hidden mystery in life. Has long been pronounced in Europe and America the greatest living wonder of the present age. Understands the science of Persian and Hindu magic, or ancient charm working, and prepares Egyptian talismans which will overcome your enemies, remove family troubles, restore lost affections, make marriage with the one you love no failure. Removes evil influences, bad habits, cures witchcraft, fits, and all long-standing and mysterious diseases. $1, $2, and $5; hours 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., strict. Send stamp for illustrated circular. Parlors 324 North 15th St. Always at home. MADAM DELIAH, mesmerist, acknowledged by all competitors as the queen of massage and mesmerism. Parlors 610 S. 13th. Hours 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., strict. NANNIE V. WAKEN, clairvoyant, incudcul and business medium. Female diseases a specialty. HUN. block, rooms 2 and a. EINKSNS Ull. AUKS. WANTED Party forest is established manufacturing business. Money wanted to meet growing demands of the trade. Investigate this. For particulars, address H. L. Hurt, 222 East 2nd St., Kansas City, Mo. WE want a good man with $2,600 to $1,000 to take an interest in the best-paying manufacturing business in the west, it will pay you to investigate this. Address H. L. Hart, 2nd and Oak Sts., Kansas City, Mo. HOTEL for sale or rent. Two-story brick; is one of the best hotels, doing an excellent good business, on one of the best corners in the city. Address Commercial Hotel, Brown How, Neb. CIGAR store, central location, invoice about $8,000 will take $1,500, $2,000 cash. Party going to Chicago and must sell. This is a bargain. Co-Op Gratiotic Land & Lot Co., 201 N. 14th St. DRUG store, widow lady wishes to sell at once her late husband's half interest in good-paying drug business. Invoice about $7,000, in Lander, Wyo. As she wishes to join east. Address Mrs. J. W. Sullivan, Lander, Wyo. STORE SALE A stock of drugs, store fixtures, and a fine soda fountain, located in a prosperous county seat in Nebraska. Everything of the best. The town is a C. C. division station and the C. C. shops are located there. For full particulars, call or address H. H. Henderson, room 400, Paxton blk., Omaha, Neb. Omaha hotel doing good business, $4,500, offer, will trade for property or house and lot. Co-Corporative Land & Lot Co. 205 N. 6th St. 513-23 Business for sale, fixtures, horse and wagon, will invoice to suit purchaser. First-class location. Address 303 Hoo. All FOI cheap A4 room first class 22 room hotel well furnished, only hotel in town a good chance for the right man. Jacob Thiem, Coleridge, Neb. 375 24 Sale - Or I Conf A small hotel in a good railroad town. Will leave the building and all the furniture, etc., reasonable property, everything now on sale; reason for selling. Agent II 22, office. Hotel for sale or rent, near C. K. & N, depot, a great opportunity; soft, snap for light party. Address Millsbury, Neb. 450 21 For rent or sale, A first class creamery in good agricultural district. Plenty of cream can be had. Address Greenbury, Sterling, Neb. 452-30 Sale Furnished house and lot of 20 rooms centrally located, suitable for hotel or lodging. Address 11 SO, office, 471 23 Sale First-class steam laundry plant, best location in Honolulu, or will sell interest to valuable property, capable of managing same. Address 11 33, office. 413 13 Sale - Physician desires to sell his residence property and practice, worth from $6,000 to $8,000 per year, in a growing town in Nebraska, good chance for a doctor. Address, M. L. Rodor & Co., 403 Paxton block, Omaha. 50 21 Sale Established cigar and news business, best location in the city. Address box 82, Chamber of Commerce. 451 Exchange - Now whole stock of notions and furnishing goods in original packages, no remnants or cut goods, to exchange for farm unencumbered real estate and one-third in cash or good paper, any amount from $1,000 to $10,000\. M. Wing & Co., 113 Cloud, Neb. CWJ-/J We have for sale 4 acres of fine lots, term may assume. W, J. Penn, Farrington, Neb. 10-24 For exchange, city property and rural land in Nebraska to exclude for Omaha or South Omaha sweet lots; will assume small encumbrance. M. H. Sturgeon, Room 13, Board of Trade. 172 Want a stock of merchandise for land and cash. Geo. H. Bowring, Stuart, Neb. 4602 Lincoln, Neb., for stock merchandise. Address Win, Bowenkink, Hickman, Neb. 401 For sale or trade, property and land to trade for stock of general merchandise and groceries. Address, Harold M., Thurman, Columbus, and city property for sale or exchange for any kind of merchandise or chattel, horses, and timber; would particularly like to trade for steers. Willis Cadwell, Brookhaven, Neb. - For exchange, good farms, city property, and wild bounds in Neb. and Iowa for large Senil mode; property clear, title perfect. Address Lock Box 11, Fremont, Neb. _ Will trade a good clear lot in South Omaha for fine or horse and buggy. Address 4 H. sto. _ .1 Stocks near city, $303 per acre, 2 acres near South Omaha, $2,000 for acre, 2 houses on motor and pavement. $100 cash, balance time. Co-Corporate Land & Lot Co, 20 N. 6th St. 472t Sale - One of the finest stock ranches in the Black Hills, Dak., together with about 2,000 head of high grade sheep and 20 head of American mares; ranch is well watered, has plenty of timber and fine land, and controls 20,000 acres of range. Located between 2 main lines of railroad, close to the famous Hot Springs and tin mines; rare opportunity to make a fortune and live in a healthy country. Will sell separately; might take clear property in part Wright Lasbury, Arlington block. 552-23 For sale, Cleveland south front lot, facing Humscom Park, Omaha, $1,000, choice building site, cheap. O. F. Harrison, 912 N. Y. fdfo Houses, 2 houses, 4 rooms each, $150 down, $12 per month. House, 4 rooms, well, cistern, etc., full lot, on 35th and Patrick ave. $1,800; $1,500 cash balance; $75 per month, 2 full lots with each, only $2,600; $1,500 cash, balance $100 per month, 7 percent, and a number of others. Geo. J. Paul, 100 Farnam Block-20 Sale - Large brick warehouse, 68x32, 4 stories. Also bargains in choice residence property. Inquire room 53, Chamber of Commerce. 40J 30 Sale - Lot 60x12, 11 Iris side No. 1, near J. Yates' residence, south front; if sold at once, $1,600. Fine residence, 20th and Farnam streets; modern improvements; $12,000. G. L. Green, room 5, Hocker block. 411 For sale, House and lot, Patrick's 2nd, $1,500; $700 cash, balance in four years. O. F. Harrison, 912 N. Y. Life. 50 23 For sale or trade at a bargain, 6-room house near ball ground. Call on Woodbridge Bros., 1412 Capitol ave. 411 26 New 8-room house, near motor line; will sell cheap and on small monthly payments. Call quick if you want a bargain. J. J. Wilkinson, 120 Parkton block. 120 Lincoln Place and Ouring lots, price $1,000, down, balance $100 per month. W. L. Selby, room 13, board of trade. 017 For sale, a home on monthly payments. A nice 6-room house, $210 per month, first payment as arranged. A pretty cottage, 5 rooms finished, upstairs for as many more, lot 50x120, $600, $1 per month, small payment down. A similar cottage, lot 100x100, $2,600, $15 per month. Will build on vacant lots to suit. Norman A. Kulhm, druggist, 15th and Douglas. 411 JIM Sale - Lot 11, Arlington, $1,310; $1,500 cash, balance in 5 years. C. F. Harrison, 912 N. Y. Life. 23 Cole. Continental block. $5.1 5-Room cottages, $1,500 each. $100 cash down, balance $415 per month. Times F. Hall. 311 Paxton block. 581 ANTED - About 100x100 ft or more, close inside; part trade, cash and time or cash and time. It 1, llco office. 173-30 "INTAKE UP and buy a home on monthly payments. Cholco of seven different houses, south fronts on Farnam St, every convenience, including furnace and gas. Plans can be seen at my office. Call in. D. V. Sholes Co., 213 1st National bank. 835 A CHEAP ranch $2,750 an acre buys a 160-acre ranch in southwestern Kansas, good soil, running water, timber, stone houses, 5 miles fence, clear encumbrance, title good. Place & Taylor, Kulilinold, Kan. CC5 20 * T71OH SALE or Trade My residence on S. - - St. near school, house of seven rooms with bathroom, water closet, hot and cold water, all in good repair; will sell for cash very cheap or will take vacant lot on West Farnam St. as part payment. For particulars address E20Ioo ! office. 013 T1OR SALE Nice 7 room house ready to move into with full lot, $5,800, $20J cash. O. F. Harrison. 1)11 ) N. Y. Life. 133 WAUGH & Westerfield, real estate, Omaha. W. V. 010 f'F YOU have anything to sell or exchange, Call at 018 Paxton block. 813 MANICURING Up to 4 Horses, little stable, some just cuts, 15 hands high, 7 miles west of Omaha. John Middleton's farm. J2-9-16-2.1-30 election. ALL persons indebted to the Nebraska Steam Laundry for work done prior to June 10th, 1900, are hereby directed to make payments at the laundry to E. D. Hostels, who is authorized to receive all due moneys and give receipts therefore. NEM. POOH, Extraction of certain parts of the estate of C. S. Poor, deceased. Notice to Contractors. South Omaha, Neb., June 17th, 1900. Sealed proposals will be received by the undersigned until twelve (12) ( ) o'clock noon, July 1st, 1890, for furnishing all the materials and doing all the work necessary to grade 100,000 cubic yards of earth more or less at the Union Stock Yards, South Omaha, Neb. Plans and specifications may be seen and all information relative to the work obtained at the office of No proposals will be considered unless accompanied by a certified check for $1,000, to be retained on all bids not accepted. The right is reserved to reject any or all bids. \\YN. HAIRCOCK. General Manager, Union Stock Yards Co., ( Incorporated ) June 27th, 1900. Notice to Contractors. South Omaha, Neb., June 17th, 1900. Sealed proposals will be received by the undersigned until twelve (12) ( ) o'clock noon, June 28th, 1900, for furnishing all the materials and doing all the work necessary to build and complete a plaster box storm water , to be immediately constructed at the Union Stock Yards, South Omaha, Neb. Plans and specifications and all information relative to the work can be obtained at this office. No proposals will be considered unless accompanied by a certified check for $1,000, to be returned on all bids not accepted. The right is reserved to reject any or all bids. W. N. HAIRCOCK, General Manager. Union Stock Yards Co., (Incorporated) June 17th, 1900. Notice To Whom It may Concern: The co-partnership existing between W. G. Albright and A. H. Cooley, under the firm name of W. G. Albright & Co., has this day been dissolved by mutual consent, and the firm has retired from business. All unsettled matters of the firm have been settled in the hands of Mr. Arthur H. Cooley, room 321 N. Y. Life Ins. Bldg., who is authorized to make all collections and adjust all settlements. Mr. W. V. G. Albright can be found at the office of the Albright Land and Lot Co., rooms 521, 522, and 523, N. Y. Life Ins. Bldg. Mr. A. H. Cooley can be found at the office of Davis & Brown Co., 218 South 12th St. June 21, 1900\. W (C. Albright, June 22nd, 1900\. A. H. COOLEY. FOR SALE JOS. R. MEAGATH, THE INTEREST IN THE COUNTY Placed on record yesterday: Lt. O'Donnell, miles, lot H, Alliance Market |, wd i 0,910 11 K Day and husband lot KSarp, and 100 H lots blk Tx ), Omaha, e d. 1,803 KSarp to Mattie Martin, w ', lot G, blk IWi. Omaha, wd. 4,000 Albright land and lot company to Emllo Weyerman, lot 2, blk X Albright's Choice, wd. 413 South Omaha land company to O U Walker, n lot 10, blk 18, South Omaha, wd. 3,100 W Bray and wife to Kind Carlson, lot 4, blk A, Creighton Heights, wd. 1,000 P W Bray and wife to W 11 Mosslamler, lot 10, blk C, Creighton Heights, wd. 1,000 J. Malmberg et al to Jane Karl, lot 1, blk 2, Malmberg & Malmstrom's 1st add to South Omaha, wd. 650 Marvin Elkhornson Jr., to A Waterman, se sw 12-10-10, w U, 1,400 J A Creighton et al executor to E D Meadister, lot 3, blk , Omaha, wd. 18,000 Peter Long to EJ Good. lots Mind 12, blk 1, Albright's Greenway, wd. 800 E Evelyn and wife to J H Hudersdorf, lot 8, blk 7H, South Omaha, wd. 2,600 Albert Head to Harecl Byrne, sw 11-17-10, wd. 3,000 AJ Horford and wife to J S Thompson, lot 4, blk 2, Andrew & Hansen's add, nd. 7,1 J O Meredith to W Meredith and D, blk 11, Omaha Place, wd. 2,000 K H Myers and wife to Otto Hutchinson, lot 15, blk 10, Omaha View, wd. 5,000 S K Smith and husband to Olof Nelson, pt 19, blk 5, Saunders & Hull's 2nd add, wd, 2,000 Briggs Place Building association to Charles Anderson, lot 22, blk 10, Briggs Place, wd 2,600 J. Boyd, sheriff-to Alvah Thompson, w V lot, Key Sub, decedent 7,513 S.I. Wells to A. Mlllward, trustee, lot 22, blk 10, Mansco Place, lots 13 and 13, blk 15, Kountz & Ruth's add, wd. 5,000 EHKowley to Lowe Avenue Terrace Hill Building association, lots 1, 2, and 10, blk 7, lots 1 to 6, blk M, lots 8 to 12, blk 10, Poppleton Park, wd, 4,600 Twenty-nine transfers $110,133 Building permits. Permits to build were issued as follows by the superintendent of buildings yesterday: James Weber, addition story to dwelling, 210 South Twenty-ninth Street. $800 John Homann, one-and-a-half-story frame dwelling, Maynard, near Forty-fourth Street. $2,000 Hamilton Mothers, one-and-a-half-story frame dwelling, Twenty-eighth and Howard Streets $1,500 Two permits aggregating $13,000 HOUSE OF LORDS An Imposing Ceremony in the HOUSE of COMMONS. LONDON, June 23\. The house of lords was filled today on the occasion of the duke of Clarence taking the oath of office and seat as peer. The ceremonies were very imposing. Previous to the ceremony, the lord chamberlain brought a message from the queen saying that the duke of Clarence should take precedence after the duke of Connought, but before the duke of Albany in the house. The lord high "excellence" bowed in acknowledgment of the message. Then there entered a procession headed by the usher of the black rod, followed by the duke of Norfolk as the hereditary earl marshal, Baron Aveland as the hereditary lord great chamberlain and Sir Albert W. Woods. Then came the Duke of Clarence with his sponsor, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of Richmond attired in ducal robes. Advancing to the woolsack, the Duke of Clarence and his sponsors bowed to the Lord High Chancellor and the Duke handed to his lordship the patent granting him a peerage. The clerk of the house read the patent aloud, also the writ commanding Clarence's presence among the peers. The Duke then took the oath of office and signed the rolls of the house, after which ceremony he was conducted to the bar, where he bowed three times to the throne, the Lord High Chancellor acknowledging the salute. He was next conducted to the chair of state and shook hands with the Chancellor. Then he withdrew, accompanied by his sponsors. The Princess of Wales and her daughters and a number of peeresses witnessed the ceremony. MEXICAN REVOLUTION. Great Excitement in Mexican States Under the Rio Grande. ST. Louis, Mo., June 5\. A special from San Antonio, Tex., says: Reports which are absolutely reliable have reached San Antonio of seditious and revolutionary movements going on in the states of Mexico bordering on the Rio Grande, and it seems the utmost folly for the papers, however friendly to Mexico and the Diaz administration, to longer suppress the news. This movement is not confined to any locality, but is undoubtedly widespread as far as the border states are concerned. Constable Mutineer of the state of Nuevo Leon describes a threatening condition of government affairs observed all along his route up the Rio Grande to Saltillo. He says that at nearly every station and side track along the Mexican National railroad he saw crowds of men congregated and excitedly discussing the advisability of joining a rebellion against the federal government. When he left Laredo this morning a courier had just arrived bearing information of a band of fifty men, well organized and armed, who had crossed the Rio Grande from the Texas side en route to some point in the interior of Nuevo Leon, where the revolutionary forces are massing in large numbers to brit march on to Saltillo, the capital of that state, and rout a contingent of the Diaz army stationed there to suppress mutinies. All the telegraph lines in Mexico are under the rigid control of the federal government and it is practically impossible to get any direct information. The cause of the trouble is the strong centralizing tendencies of the Diaz government. North American Turnerbund. New York, June 5\. The North American Turnerbund held three sessions today. The Milwaukee Turner Zeitung was chosen as the official organ. The Turners' Mutual Benefit association of the northwest proposed the support of the turnerbund. He offered to the committee on organization, There was a long discussion on the proposition to establish a teachers' seminary in Milwaukee and consolidate with it the German-American Institute of Indianapolis. The latter has been heretofore a perambulating institution from city to city. Milwaukee, however, was finally chosen as the seat of the national institute. Secretary Will Recover. L. O. Secretary, the man who fell from the window at the Merchants' hotel, is now improving rapidly, and his physicians state that he will recover. At 2 o'clock this morning he was resting well, his condition having improved very materially during the past twenty-four hours. Relocation to American Riflemen. HAMBURG, June 30\. Twenty-five Hamburg riflemen met the Americans at Wilhelmsdorf on their arrival from New York today. There was an elaborate reception. Of Pittsburgh Blazon, at Milwaukee, Wis., July, 1900. For this great occasion excursion tickets will be sold from all principal points in the United States and Canada to Milwaukee and return via the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul railway at half rate. All have Indications the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul railway is the direct route to Milwaukee, and as the camp ground for the Uniformed Knights to which point coaches and trains will be sent through without transfer) In such a way that the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul railway has great advantage over other railroads which are unable to furnish such accommodations, and visiting Knights, their families and friends should bear this in mind when purchasing excursion tickets. A circular giving detailed information will be mailed free upon application to V. V. H. Carnot, general publishing agent, Milwaukee, Wis. J. K. HILBERTSON, P. A. N. Agent, Principal Agent. (General Agent. 1501 Farnam Street (Davenport Block), Omaha. BRADSHAW'S PLEA FOR AID. It Will Be Libally Responded to by Omaha's Generous Citizens. ACTION AT LAST NIGHT'S MASS MEETING, An Organized Effort to Help the Sufferers (of the Recent Cyclone. The meeting called for last night at the board of trade room took no rollo of the expectations of those who issued the call, as the attendance was very slight. Mr. H. T. Clarke was made chairman, and the meeting resolved itself into an informal body and discussed the situation. Messrs. Clarke, Buchanan, Pernell, Savage, Dietz, Nelson and Bloomer, of those who went to Bradshaw, were present and related such facts of the situation as had come under their personal observation. The prevailing idea was that immediate action in affording relief was necessary and the best way to make the relief beneficial was freely discussed. Mr. Nelson suggested that it would be a good idea to have a list prepared of those who were destitute and also of the articles most needed, so that an idea might be formed of what was needed. Mr. Clarke said he had observed that there was an entire lack of system in the distribution of supplies which had already been sent to Bradshaw, and suggested that some system should be adopted so that those who were in the greatest need should receive attention first. Other citizens having come in, the meeting was called to order and Mr. Buchanan addressed the meeting, stating what the committee had seen at Bradshaw. In the residence portion of the town there were no buildings left standing, and in the entire town not a single building was in such shape as to be fit for occupancy. The people were entirely destitute and had very little money. Their goods were scattered far and near, and what little money the people had was being used very economically to assist those who most needed it. The town itself would have to be entirely rebuilt. The Congregational church had been lifted from its place and scattered all about, nothing being left except the floor. The Methodist church was in the same shape. The schoolhouse, which had just been completed, was blown entirely down. This had just been erected, and the school district had bonded to the full limit of the law, so it would be impossible to build another without outside help. A very careful estimate, Mr. Buchanan said, placed the amount of destruction at about 75 or 80 percent of the possessions of the people. The lumber of which the buildings had been constructed had been splintered and twisted so that it was impossible to use it again. What the people needed, he said, was household goods of all descriptions, tinware, clothing, and so on indefinitely. Rev. Charles Savage related several incidents which showed the force of the storm. Horses had their legs twisted off, carriage wheels had the hubs and spokes twisted out, etc. Mr. Savage said the people needed boots and shoes, crockery and food. The railroads, he said, had agreed to transport all goods free of charge. Mr. Dietz said that lumber was very cheap now and several carloads might be sent out with some carpenters, who could erect a few houses to relieve the immediate needs of the people. On motion of Mr. Buchanan, an executive committee, consisting of H. T. Clarke, Herman Kountze, A. P. Hopkins, H. Doll, and T. H. McCulloch, was appointed to have charge of money which might be raised and to have authority to secure, by purchase or otherwise, such article and in such quantities as the needs of the Grandview people demanded, and to procure lumber for building. A soliciting committee, consisting of the representatives of the various trades, was appointed to solicit contributions and turn them over to the executive committee. The chair appointed on this committee M. A. Upson, J. B. Evans, C. N. Dille, Charles W. Morton, Richard Smith, Charles Savidge, J. O. Phillippi, J. A. Wakelfield, M. L, Goodell, C. Paulson, John Bloomer, S. P. Morse, J. A. Fuller, Charles Hayward, and C. H. Woodman. This committee will meet at the board of trade room at 12 o'clock today. E. H. Sothern played "Lord Chumley" at Boyd's opera house last night to a very full audience, and his performance was greatly enjoyed by everyone. On taking into consideration the fact that this is a most unreasonable time of year for indoor amusements, Mr. Sothern should feel complimented to know that the fashionable theater, Keel's, willingly endured a disagreeable atmosphere for the enjoyment of such fine entertainment as he affords them. The audience last night was strong proof of the favorable impression Mr. Sothern made during his visit, about one year ago. Inasmuch as Mr. Sothern's exceedingly clever and delicately artistic impersonation of a very peculiar, strangely constructed character was somewhat elaborated on at that time, no more need be said now further than that his reception was an enthusiastic and hearty one. He is supported by a well-organized company, consequently every part of the play moved along in a smooth and satisfactory manner. Mr. Sothern had written to friends here that they were badly worn out from heat and travel, and therefore could not promise the people of Omaha much of a treat, but it was the generally expressed opinion that he played more earnestly and was stronger in some of his scenes than before. Will Not Shorten the Session. LONDON, June 31\. There is a consensus of opinion that the government's new License scheme will not shorten the session of parliament. It is undeniable that the entire bill would have been dropped but for Goschen and Richcll, both of whom threatened to resign if the bill was withdrawn. Cairns, member for Barrow-in-Furness, with a view to testing the feeling of his electorate on the subject, resigned his seat tonight and will seek re-election on the anti-government programme. At a meeting of temperance leaders tonight a manifesto was adopted declaring that the government's scheme is worse than worthless. The party will continue its caucus opposition to the measure. Knocked Down With a Billy. John Matthews came down from Lu Mount, intending to go to work for Walker & Co., but before he had been in the city an hour, he got into trouble. At 12:30 last night he was drinking in Fred Hanckel's saloon on fourteenth street, when the bartender knocked him down with a billy, after which, he was taken to the station and placed in the hospital ward. The saloonkeeper was arrested on the charge of assaulting with intent to wound. The Apollo Club Banquet. The Apollo Club tendered H. P. Young, the director, a banquet at the Millard last night. About twenty-five of the club men were present and the dinner was passed in merriment and discussing the pleasant supply of good things with which the banquet table was provided. Jumped the Track. READING, Pa., June 33\. The locomotive, baggage car, and passenger car of a southbound passenger train on the Philadelphia & Reading railroad jumped the track this morning about five miles from this city. Louis Vckley, engineer, was killed, and his brother, the conductor, probably fatally injured. Several other trainmen were injured, but no passengers were hurt. British Opinion on Silver. LONDON, June 31\. M. de Lavelle, a distinguished economist, writes that either of the American silver bills will injure the cause of international bimetallism, but neither can possibly injure America. Of the two, he considers the free coinage bill the least harmful. Rio, June 31\. Sobrado, minister of finance, has resigned. He will be succeeded by Miguel, mayor of Granada and leader of the national labor movement.