<!--yml
category: 未分类
date: 2024-05-27 14:52:43
-->

# Lie-to-children - Wikipedia

> 来源：[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie-to-children](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie-to-children)

Teaching a complex subject via simpler models

A **lie-to-children** is a simplified, and often technically incorrect, explanation of technical or complex subjects employed as a teaching method. Educators who employ lies-to-children do not intend to deceive, but instead seek to 'meet the child/pupil/student where they are', in order to facilitate initial comprehension, which they build upon over time as the learner's intellectual capacity expands. The technique has been incorporated by academics within the fields of [biology](/wiki/Biology "Biology"), [evolution](/wiki/Evolution "Evolution"), [bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics "Bioinformatics") and the [social sciences](/wiki/Social_sciences "Social sciences").

## Origin and Development[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=1 "Edit section: Origin and Development")]

The "lie-to-children" concept was first discussed by scientist [Jack Cohen](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)") and mathematician [Ian Stewart](/wiki/Ian_Stewart_(mathematician) "Ian Stewart (mathematician)") in the 1994 book *[The Collapse of Chaos: Discovering Simplicity in a Complex World](/wiki/The_Collapse_of_Chaos:_Discovering_Simplicity_in_a_Complex_World "The Collapse of Chaos: Discovering Simplicity in a Complex World")* as myths—a means of ensuring that accumulated cultural lore is passed on to future generations in a way that was sufficient but not completely true.^([[1]](#cite_note-andysawyer-1))^([[2]](#cite_note-butler-2))^([[3]](#cite_note-collapse-3))

They further elaborated upon their views in *[Figments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind](/wiki/Figments_of_Reality:_The_Evolution_of_the_Curious_Mind "Figments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind")*, stating that the lie-to-children concept reflected the difficulty inherent in reducing complex concepts during the education process.^([[4]](#cite_note-figments-4))^([[5]](#cite_note-douglaschapman-5)) Stewart and Cohen noted that "[a]ny description suitable for human minds to grasp must be *some* type of lie-to-children," and that the truth is "much too complicated for our limited minds."^([[4]](#cite_note-figments-4))

The concept gained greater exposure when they coauthored *[The Science of Discworld](/wiki/The_Science_of_Discworld "The Science of Discworld")* with author [Terry Pratchett](/wiki/Terry_Pratchett "Terry Pratchett"). In this book, the authors acknowledge that some people might dispute the applicability of the term *lie*, while defending it on the grounds that "it is for the best possible reasons, but it is still a lie".^([[6]](#cite_note-pratchett-6)) In an interview promoting the book, Pratchett cautioned: "Most of us need just 'enough' knowledge of the sciences, and it's delivered to us in metaphors and analogies that bite us in the bum if we think they're the same as the truth."^([[7]](#cite_note-davidlangford-7))^([[8]](#cite_note-langfordamazon-8))

## Examples in education[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=2 "Edit section: Examples in education")]

A typical example of a lie-to-children is found in [physics](/wiki/Physics "Physics"), where the [Bohr model](/wiki/Bohr_model "Bohr model") of atomic electron shells is still often used to introduce atomic structure before moving on to [more complex models](/wiki/Bohr_model#Refinements "Bohr model") based on [matrix mechanics](/wiki/Matrix_mechanics "Matrix mechanics"). Similarly in chemistry, students are often introduced to the [Arrhenius definitions of acids and bases](/wiki/Acid%E2%80%93base_reaction#Arrhenius_definition "Acid–base reaction") before being taught the more technically correct, but more complex [Brønsted–Lowry](/wiki/Br%C3%B8nsted%E2%80%93Lowry_acid%E2%80%93base_theory "Brønsted–Lowry acid–base theory") model, followed by the [Lewis](/wiki/Lewis_acids_and_bases "Lewis acids and bases") model. This order of teaching chemistry concepts also reflects the historical progression in the development of these models.

High school teachers and university instructors often explain at the outset that the model they are about to present is incomplete. An example of this is given by [Gerald Sussman](/wiki/Gerald_Sussman "Gerald Sussman") during the 1986 video recording of the [Abelson](/wiki/Hal_Abelson "Hal Abelson")-Sussman Lectures ([lecture 1-b](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-001-structure-and-interpretation-of-computer-programs-spring-2005/video-lectures/1b-procedures-and-processes-substitution-model/)):

> If we're going to understand processes and how we control them, then we have to have a mapping from the mechanisms of this procedure into the way in which these processes behave. What we're going to have is a formal, or semi-formal, mechanical model whereby you understand how a machine could, in fact, in principle, do this. Whether or not the actual machine really does what I'm about to tell you is completely irrelevant at this moment.
> 
> In fact, this is an [engineering model](/wiki/Function_model "Function model"), in the same way that, [for an] electrical resistor, we write down a model V = IR—it's approximately true, but it's not really true; if I put enough current through the resistor, it goes boom, so the voltage is not always proportional to the current, but for some purposes the model is appropriate.
> 
> In particular, the model we're going to describe right now, which I call the substitution model, is the simplest model that we have for understanding how procedures work and how processes work—how procedures yield processes.
> 
> And that substitution model will be accurate for most of the things we'll be dealing with in the next few days. But eventually, it will become impossible to sustain the illusion that that's the way the machine works, and we'll go to other, more specific and particular models that will show more detail.

## Analysis[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=3 "Edit section: Analysis")]

### Comparison to other concepts[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=4 "Edit section: Comparison to other concepts")]

[Andrew Sawyer](/wiki/Andrew_Sawyer "Andrew Sawyer") compared the concept to that of [science fiction](/wiki/Science_fiction "Science fiction") in the article "Narrativium and Lies-to-Children: 'Palatable Instruction in 'The Science of Discworld'", in which he wrote: "The 'lies-to-children' we tell ourselves about science are a different form of science fiction: one, perhaps where 'fiction' qualifies the word 'science'. They are 'fictions about science' rather than 'science fictions'."^([[1]](#cite_note-andysawyer-1))^([[2]](#cite_note-butler-2))

[Anthony Judge](/wiki/Anthony_Judge "Anthony Judge") has noted that the concept itself is a lie-to-children for more complex concepts in the philosophy of science.^([[9]](#cite_note-judge-9))

Writing for *[Forbes](/wiki/Forbes "Forbes")* in 2015, physics [professor](/wiki/Professor "Professor") and science journalist [Chad Orzel](/wiki/Chad_Orzel "Chad Orzel") explored how the [University of California Museum of Paleontology](/wiki/University_of_California_Museum_of_Paleontology "University of California Museum of Paleontology") initiative *Understanding Science* goes beyond a simple explanation of the [scientific method](/wiki/Scientific_method "Scientific method") in a lie-to-children format, and instead goes into more depth and specifics to directly inform others on how science impacts their daily quality of living.^([[10]](#cite_note-orzel-10))

### Application across fields[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=5 "Edit section: Application across fields")]

Writing for *Forbes*, [Tim Worstall](/wiki/Tim_Worstall "Tim Worstall") commented on the lie-to-children's application in physics and music, where lessons on scales precede those on [atonality](/wiki/Atonality "Atonality"), [common time](/wiki/Common_time "Common time") and [half time](/wiki/Half-time_(music) "Half-time (music)") precede [syncopation](/wiki/Syncopation "Syncopation"). He notes that Newton's physics is a lie-to-children compared to Einstein's additions.^([[11]](#cite_note-worstall-11))

In *Nonlinear Dynamics in the Life and Social Sciences*, Jack Cohen discussed the application of lies-to-children to teaching evolution, including the notion of [DNA](/wiki/DNA "DNA")'s purpose as a "blueprint", stating that "[o]nly the search for universal features, while treasuring all the exceptional specifics, offers some hope of sketching out the general shape of the evolutionary process so that we can explain it honestly as a Lie-to-Children."^([[12]](#cite_note-nonlinear-12)) Similarly, in *Bioinformatics, Biocomputing and Perl*, authors Michael Moorhouse and Paul Barry explained how the lie-to-children model may be utilized as a teaching technique for the concepts of [protein](/wiki/Protein "Protein"), [RNA](/wiki/RNA "RNA"), and DNA.^([[13]](#cite_note-moorhouse-13))

In a [computer science](/wiki/Computer_science "Computer science") paper on [linear algebra](/wiki/Linear_algebra "Linear algebra") instruction, D.J. Jeffrey and Robert M. Corless from the [University of Western Ontario](/wiki/University_of_Western_Ontario "University of Western Ontario") identified an example from early childhood mathematics instruction: "We happily teach children that 'you cannot take 3 from 2' because we are confident that someone will later introduce them to negative numbers."^([[14]](#cite_note-teachinglinear-14)) Corless followed up on this view in a subsequent paper, stating that "mathematics before computers was a lie to children."^([[15]](#cite_note-corless2004-15))

### Drawbacks[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=6 "Edit section: Drawbacks")]

In *[Evolving the Alien](/wiki/Evolving_the_Alien "Evolving the Alien"): The Science of Extraterrestrial Life*, Cohen and Stewart themselves warn of a potential side-effect of lies-to-children in reducing complex science concepts to overly simplified explanations.^([[16]](#cite_note-langfordevolving-16)) In a paper published in *Digital Difference*, Hamish Macleod and Jen Ross wrote that lies-to-children can have the negative impact on learners by setting an unreasonable expectation for "simple and unambiguous questions and equally simple answers".^([[17]](#cite_note-macleodross-17))

In the journal *[Metaphilosophy](/wiki/Metaphilosophy_(journal) "Metaphilosophy (journal)")*, Kirsten Walsh and Adrian Currie draw a distinction between "caricature" and "mythmaking" in the framework of lies-to-children, and conclude that mythmaking is unjustified.^([[18]](#cite_note-walsh-18)) [North Eastern Hill University](/wiki/North_Eastern_Hill_University "North Eastern Hill University") economics professor Sudhanshu K. Mishra explored the use of mythology in parenting, such as the case of parents telling children that they were [brought by a stork to the house](/wiki/White_stork#Storks_and_delivery_of_babies "White stork"), instead of providing a more adequate explanation of [childbirth](/wiki/Childbirth "Childbirth").^([[19]](#cite_note-mishra-19)) In *The Children's Bill of Emotional Rights*, Eileen Johnson discussed the problems that childhood mythology could cause in the future during the parenting process. Johnson cautioned that the lie must eventually be revealed, and that parents "are not sure how much of this deceit is right, how far to go with it, and how and when to explain it was all a lie."^([[20]](#cite_note-eileenjohnson-20))

In a column for the [Carleton College](/wiki/Carleton_College "Carleton College") website, [geophysicist](/wiki/Geophysicist "Geophysicist") Kim Kastens lists potential pitfalls, such as how a lie-to-children that must later be unlearned may provide a potential obstacle to subsequent teachers, or how a student may discern the lie.^([[21]](#cite_note-kastens-21)) In a contribution to *Teaching Bilingual/Bicultural Children*, Kharem and Collura assert that such a revelation makes the educators seem disingenuous and undermines their respect in the student.^([[22]](#cite_note-kharem-22)) Kastens lists criteria to avoid the pitfalls, such ensuring the teacher understands the truth beyond the lie-to-children, and having a "master plan" of a learning progression that the lies-to-children works towards.^([[21]](#cite_note-kastens-21))

## See also[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=7 "Edit section: See also")]

## References[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=8 "Edit section: References")]

1.  ^ [^(***a***)](#cite_ref-andysawyer_1-0) [^(***b***)](#cite_ref-andysawyer_1-1) [Sawyer, Andy](/wiki/Andrew_Sawyer "Andrew Sawyer") (2000). "Narrativium and Lies-to-Children: 'Palatable Instruction in 'The Science of Discworld'". *Hungarian Journal of English and American Studies (HJEAS)*. **6** (1). Centre for Arts, Humanities and Sciences (CAHS), acting on behalf of the University of Debrecen CAHS: 155–178\. [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [1218-7364](https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1218-7364). [JSTOR](/wiki/JSTOR_(identifier) "JSTOR (identifier)") [41274079](https://www.jstor.org/stable/41274079).
2.  ^ [^(***a***)](#cite_ref-butler_2-0) [^(***b***)](#cite_ref-butler_2-1) [Sawyer, Andrew](/wiki/Andrew_Sawyer "Andrew Sawyer") (2007). "Narrativium and Lies-to-Children: 'Palatable Instruction in 'The Science of Discworld'". In Butler, Andrew M. (ed.). *An Unofficial Companion to the Novels of Terry Pratchett*. Greenwood. pp. 80–82\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-1-84645-043-3</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-84645-043-3 "Special:BookSources/978-1-84645-043-3").
3.  **[^](#cite_ref-collapse_3-0)** [Cohen, Jack](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)"); [Stewart, Ian](/wiki/Ian_Stewart_(mathematician) "Ian Stewart (mathematician)") (1994). [*The Collapse of Chaos: Discovering Simplicity in a Complex World*](https://archive.org/details/collapseofchaosd00cohe/page/7). [Penguin Books](/wiki/Penguin_Books "Penguin Books"). pp. [7–9](https://archive.org/details/collapseofchaosd00cohe/page/7). [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-670-84983-3</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-670-84983-3 "Special:BookSources/978-0-670-84983-3").
4.  ^ [^(***a***)](#cite_ref-figments_4-0) [^(***b***)](#cite_ref-figments_4-1) [Stewart, Ian](/wiki/Ian_Stewart_(mathematician) "Ian Stewart (mathematician)"); [Cohen, Jack](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)") (1997). *Figments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind*. [Cambridge University Press](/wiki/Cambridge_University_Press "Cambridge University Press"). pp. 37–38, 140\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-521-57155-5</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-521-57155-5 "Special:BookSources/978-0-521-57155-5").
5.  **[^](#cite_ref-douglaschapman_5-0)** Chapman, Douglas (1997). ["Book Review – Figments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind"](https://web.archive.org/web/20150919014619/http://www.strangemag.com/reviews/figmentsofreality.html). *Strange Magazine*. Archived from [the original](http://www.strangemag.com/reviews/figmentsofreality.html) on 19 September 2015. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
6.  **[^](#cite_ref-pratchett_6-0)** [Pratchett, Terry](/wiki/Terry_Pratchett "Terry Pratchett"); [Stewart, Ian](/wiki/Ian_Stewart_(mathematician) "Ian Stewart (mathematician)"); [Cohen, Jack](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)") (2014). [*The Science of Discworld*](/wiki/The_Science_of_Discworld "The Science of Discworld"). Anchor; 2014 Reprint Edition of 1999 book; Paperback. pp. 28–30\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-8041-6894-6</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8041-6894-6 "Special:BookSources/978-0-8041-6894-6").
7.  **[^](#cite_ref-davidlangford_7-0)** [Langford, David](/wiki/David_Langford "David Langford") (2015). "Terry Pratchett, Jack Cohen and Ian Stewart: 1999". *CROSSTALK: Interviews Conducted by David Langford*. Lulu.com; Republished from: Amazon.co.uk, 1999\. pp. 38–40\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-1-326-29982-8</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-326-29982-8 "Special:BookSources/978-1-326-29982-8").
8.  **[^](#cite_ref-langfordamazon_8-0)** [Langford, David](/wiki/David_Langford "David Langford") (1999). ["Weird Science"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160228165648/http://www.lspace.org/about-terry/interviews/amazon.html). *Amazon.co.uk*. The L-Space Web: Interviews – Interview Conducted by Amazon.co.uk with Terry Pratchett, Ian Stewart and Jack Cohen. Archived from [the original](http://www.lspace.org/about-terry/interviews/amazon.html) on 28 February 2016. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
9.  **[^](#cite_ref-judge_9-0)** Judge, Anthony (1 July 2007). ["Strategic leadership as essentially a "shell game" with potential opponents, followers and dissidents?"](https://web.archive.org/web/20121031134328/http://www.laetusinpraesens.org/docs00s/mislead.php). *Emergence of a Global Misleadership Council – misleading as vital to governance of the future?*. Laetus in Praesens. Archived from [the original](https://www.laetusinpraesens.org/docs00s/mislead.php) on 31 October 2012. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
10.  **[^](#cite_ref-orzel_10-0)** [Orzel, Chad](/wiki/Chad_Orzel "Chad Orzel") (3 November 2015). ["'The Scientific Method' Is A Myth, Long Live The Scientific Method"](https://web.archive.org/web/20151112005555/http://www.forbes.com/sites/chadorzel/2015/11/03/the-scientific-method-is-a-myth-long-live-the-scientific-method/). *[Forbes](/wiki/Forbes "Forbes")*. Archived from [the original](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chadorzel/2015/11/03/the-scientific-method-is-a-myth-long-live-the-scientific-method) on 12 November 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2016.
11.  **[^](#cite_ref-worstall_11-0)** [Worstall, Tim](/wiki/Tim_Worstall "Tim Worstall") (25 November 2015). ["To Prove Econ 101 Is Wrong You Do Need To Understand Econ 101"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160211163351/http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2015/11/25/to-prove-econ-101-is-wrong-you-do-need-to-understand-econ-101/). *[Forbes](/wiki/Forbes "Forbes")*. Archived from [the original](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2015/11/25/to-prove-econ-101-is-wrong-you-do-need-to-understand-econ-101) on 11 February 2016. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
12.  **[^](#cite_ref-nonlinear_12-0)** [Cohen, Jack](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)") (2001). "Complexity of Evolution". In Sulis, William H.; Trofimova, Irina Nikolaevna (eds.). *Nonlinear Dynamics in the Life and Social Sciences*. NATO Science, Series A: Life Sciences, Vol. 320\. IOS. pp. 357–359\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-1-58603-020-9</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-58603-020-9 "Special:BookSources/978-1-58603-020-9").
13.  **[^](#cite_ref-moorhouse_13-0)** Moorhouse, Michael; Barry, Paul (2004). *Bioinformatics Biocomputing and Perl: An Introduction to Bioinformatics Computing Skills and Practice*. Wiley. pp. 4–6\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-470-85331-3</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-470-85331-3 "Special:BookSources/978-0-470-85331-3").
14.  **[^](#cite_ref-teachinglinear_14-0)** Jeffrey, D.J.; Corless, Robert M. (2001). ["Teaching Linear Algebra with and to Computers"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160227024502/http://epatcm.any2any.us/10thAnniversaryCD/EP/2001/ATCMP127/fullpaper.pdf) (PDF). Ontario Research Centre for Computer Algebra at the [University of Western Ontario](/wiki/University_of_Western_Ontario "University of Western Ontario"). Archived from [the original](http://epatcm.any2any.us/10thAnniversaryCD/EP/2001/ATCMP127/fullpaper.pdf) (PDF) on 27 February 2016. Retrieved 27 February 2016.
15.  **[^](#cite_ref-corless2004_15-0)** Corless, Robert M. (July 2004). ["Computer-Mediated Thinking"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160227025107/http://kong.apmaths.uwo.ca/~rcorless/frames/PAPERS/EDUC/CMTpaper.pdf) (PDF). ORCCA and the Department of Applied Mathematics at the [University of Western Ontario](/wiki/University_of_Western_Ontario "University of Western Ontario"). Archived from [the original](http://kong.apmaths.uwo.ca/~rcorless/frames/PAPERS/EDUC/CMTpaper.pdf) (PDF) on 27 February 2016. Retrieved 27 February 2016.
16.  **[^](#cite_ref-langfordevolving_16-0)** [Langford, David](/wiki/David_Langford "David Langford") (5 October 2002). ["Evolving the Alien: The science of extraterrestrial life by Jack Cohen and Ian Stewart"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160228172211/https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg17623636-300-evolving-the-alien-the-science-of-extraterrestrial-life-by-jack-cohen-and-ian-stewart/). *[New Scientist](/wiki/New_Scientist "New Scientist")*. [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [0262-4079](https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0262-4079). Archived from [the original](https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg17623636-300-evolving-the-alien-the-science-of-extraterrestrial-life-by-jack-cohen-and-ian-stewart/) on 28 February 2016. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
17.  **[^](#cite_ref-macleodross_17-0)** Macleod, Hamish; Ross, Jenn (2011). ["Structure, Authority and Other Noncepts1"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160228173510/http://www.research.ed.ac.uk/portal/files/13447040/Structure_Authority_and_Other_Noncepts.pdf) (PDF). *Digital Difference: Perspectives on Online Learning*. Sense Publishers. pp. 15–28\. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1007/978-94-6091-580-2_2](https://doi.org/10.1007%2F978-94-6091-580-2_2). [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-94-6091-580-2</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-94-6091-580-2 "Special:BookSources/978-94-6091-580-2"). Archived from [the original](http://www.research.ed.ac.uk/portal/files/13447040/Structure_Authority_and_Other_Noncepts.pdf) (PDF) on 28 February 2016. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
18.  **[^](#cite_ref-walsh_18-0)** Walsh, Kirsten; Currie, Adrian (22 July 2015). ["Caricatures, Myths, and White Lies"](https://ore.exeter.ac.uk/repository/bitstream/10871/35769/1/Walsh-Currie%20-%20Caricatures.pdf) (PDF). *[Metaphilosophy](/wiki/Metaphilosophy_(journal) "Metaphilosophy (journal)")*. **46** (3): 414–435\. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1111/meta.12139](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fmeta.12139). [hdl](/wiki/Hdl_(identifier) "Hdl (identifier)"):[10871/35769](https://hdl.handle.net/10871%2F35769). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [1467-9973](https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1467-9973).
19.  **[^](#cite_ref-mishra_19-0)** Mishra, Sudhanshu K. (23 May 2010). ["An Essay on the Nature and Significance of Deception and Telling Lies"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160228033645/https://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/22906/1/). *Munich Personal RePEc Archive; MPRA Paper No. 22906*. Archived from [the original](https://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/22906/1/) on 28 February 2016. Retrieved 28 February 2016.
20.  **[^](#cite_ref-eileenjohnson_20-0)** Johnson, Eileen (2011). *The Children's Bill of Emotional Rights: A Guide to the Needs of Children*. Jason Aronson, Inc. pp. 38–40\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-7657-0850-2</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-7657-0850-2 "Special:BookSources/978-0-7657-0850-2").
21.  ^ [^(***a***)](#cite_ref-kastens_21-0) [^(***b***)](#cite_ref-kastens_21-1) Kastens, Kim; Chayes, Dana (26 October 2011). ["Telling Lies to Children"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160205090900/http://serc.carleton.edu/earthandmind/posts/lies_children.html). *Earth and Mind*. [Carleton College](/wiki/Carleton_College "Carleton College"). Archived from [the original](http://serc.carleton.edu/earthandmind/posts/lies_children.html) on 5 February 2016. Retrieved 26 February 2016.
22.  **[^](#cite_ref-kharem_22-0)** Kharem, Haroom; Collura, Genevieve (2010). "Chapter Seventeen: Teachers Rethinking Their Pedagogical Attitudes in the Bicultural/Bilingual Classroom". In Soto, Lourdes Diaz; Kharem, Haroon (eds.). *Teaching Bilingual/Bicultural Children: Teachers Talk about Language and Learning*. Counterpoints (Book 371). Peter Lang Publishing. pp. 152–155\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-1-4331-0718-4</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-4331-0718-4 "Special:BookSources/978-1-4331-0718-4"). [JSTOR](/wiki/JSTOR_(identifier) "JSTOR (identifier)") [42980693](https://www.jstor.org/stable/42980693).

## Further reading[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=9 "Edit section: Further reading")]

*   [Orzel, Chad](/wiki/Chad_Orzel "Chad Orzel") (3 November 2015). ["'The Scientific Method' Is A Myth, Long Live The Scientific Method"](https://web.archive.org/web/20151112005555/http://www.forbes.com/sites/chadorzel/2015/11/03/the-scientific-method-is-a-myth-long-live-the-scientific-method/). *[Forbes](/wiki/Forbes "Forbes")*. Archived from [the original](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chadorzel/2015/11/03/the-scientific-method-is-a-myth-long-live-the-scientific-method) on 12 November 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2016.
*   [Pratchett, Terry](/wiki/Terry_Pratchett "Terry Pratchett"); [Stewart, Ian](/wiki/Ian_Stewart_(mathematician) "Ian Stewart (mathematician)"); [Cohen, Jack](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)") (2014). [*The Science of Discworld*](/wiki/The_Science_of_Discworld "The Science of Discworld"). Anchor; 2014 Reprint Edition of 1999 book; Paperback. pp. 28–30\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-8041-6894-6</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8041-6894-6 "Special:BookSources/978-0-8041-6894-6").
*   [Sawyer, Andy](/wiki/Andrew_Sawyer "Andrew Sawyer") (2000). "Narrativium and Lies-to-Children: 'Palatable Instruction in 'The Science of Discworld'". *Hungarian Journal of English and American Studies (HJEAS)*. **6** (1). Centre for Arts, Humanities and Sciences (CAHS), acting on behalf of the University of Debrecen CAHS: 155–178\. [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [1218-7364](https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1218-7364). [JSTOR](/wiki/JSTOR_(identifier) "JSTOR (identifier)") [41274079](https://www.jstor.org/stable/41274079).
*   [Stewart, Ian](/wiki/Ian_Stewart_(mathematician) "Ian Stewart (mathematician)"); [Cohen, Jack](/wiki/Jack_Cohen_(scientist) "Jack Cohen (scientist)") (1997). *Figments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind*. [Cambridge University Press](/wiki/Cambridge_University_Press "Cambridge University Press"). pp. 37–38, 140\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [<bdi>978-0-521-57155-5</bdi>](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-521-57155-5 "Special:BookSources/978-0-521-57155-5").
*   [Worstall, Tim](/wiki/Tim_Worstall "Tim Worstall") (25 November 2015). ["To Prove Econ 101 Is Wrong You Do Need To Understand Econ 101"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160211163351/http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2015/11/25/to-prove-econ-101-is-wrong-you-do-need-to-understand-econ-101/). *[Forbes](/wiki/Forbes "Forbes")*. Archived from [the original](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2015/11/25/to-prove-econ-101-is-wrong-you-do-need-to-understand-econ-101) on 11 February 2016. Retrieved 28 February 2016.

## External links[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Lie-to-children&action=edit&section=10 "Edit section: External links")]